packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/modal/info.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

import Img from 'Tags/Img'
import ModalExample from './assets/modal-example.svg'
import ModalExampleButtons from './assets/modal-example-buttons.svg'

## Description

NB! Modal dialogs interrupt users and demand an action. They are appropriate when user’s attention needs to be directed toward important information.

### Behavior

The modal can be triggered from either a button or by using the `open_state` property. Triggering a modal will activate the opaque overlay and display the contents.

### Help button

As the Modal is very often used in combination with other components and often as a enhancement of contextual content, it comes with a trigger button ([HelpButton](/uilib/components/help-button)) with a question mark icon by default. You can for sure disable that behavior by using `trigger_hidden="true"`.

You can also used the broadly available `suffix` property, like so:

```jsx
<Input
  label="Input"
  placeholder="Placeholder ..."
  suffix={<HelpButton>Help text</HelpButton>}
/>
```

### Accessibility

In order to make modals accessible, a lot of things are considered.

Entering a Modal / Drawer will:

1. Set focus on the heading or close button.
2. Enable escape key listener.
3. Invalidate every DOM element outside of the Modal / Drawer, so they are not accessible to keyboard and screen reader users. For doing that, there is a [helper function](/uilib/helpers/functions#interactioninvalidation-example) to be used in your application as well.
4. Disable the body scroll possibility.
5. Make the Modal / Drawer scrollable if needed.
6. Dim the body / background with an overlay

### Structure and content

Typically an opaque cover over the main content (fullscreen) and a small centered box containing information and interactive elements (buttons, forms etc.)

### What is it

Modal dialogs appear on top of the main content changing the _mode_ of the system into a special mode requiring user interaction. The main content is disabled until the user interacts with the modal dialog.

### Disadvantages of modal Dialogs

1.  They require immediate attention
1.  They interrupt users
1.  They cause users to forget what they were doing
1.  They add extra goals - reading, interacting and closing the Modal
1.  They block the content in the background

### Guidelines

1.  Use for important warnings as a way to prevent or correct critical errors.
1.  Do not use for unessential information that is not related to the users current workflow.
1.  Use for requesting the user to enter information critical to the current process.

### Design Patterns

<Img src={ModalExample} caption="Modal with header, text and close button (spacing suggestions in blue and pink)" alt="Image showing Modal with header" />

<Img src={ModalExampleButtons} caption="Modal with header, text, buttons and close button" alt="Image showing Modal with header and clsoe button" />

## Root Element

**NB:** If the wrapper is not set manually, a wrapper is inserted automatically as a child node to the body.

To make sure the HTML structure is decoupled from all the page content, You can optionally define a wrapper div like `<div class="dnb-modal-root" />`.

Just place this as a sibling of Your App root HTML element. This ensures that we always can stack the modal content above the App Content.

```html
<body>
  <div id="app" />
  <div id="dnb-modal-root" />
</body>
```

### Z-index

The Modal component is using **3000** as the `z-index`.

```css
:root {
  --modal-z-index: 3000;
}
```

## Sizing and spacing

You have the properties `min_width` and `max_width`. But by using these, the width styles get injected inline, which normal circumstances works fine. But in case you want to set it by CSS, you can do so:

```css
/* Change the Modal size  */
.dnb-modal__content__inner {
  min-width: 20vw;
  max-width: 40rem;
}

/* Change the Modal spacing  */
:root {
  /* Defaults to --spacing-large */
  --modal-spacing: var(--spacing-small);
}
```

## Inner section wrapper

In order to make it easier to have another colored area below the title, you can make use of the extra wrapper `<Modal.Inner>`. Underneath, the [Section](/uilib/components/section) is used, but with the color `black-3` as default. This extra "section" is also customized to work together with the Modal and Drawer component.

```jsx
<Modal mode="drawer">
  <Modal.Inner spacing>Modal Content</Modal.Inner>
</Modal>
```

## Styles and `dnb-core-style`

The Modal component comes with the `dnb-core-style` class predefined by default. If you don't want this behavior because of e.g. CSS specificity, you can opt out by setting this property `prevent_core_style` to true.

```jsx
/* The CSS class is set by default */
<Modal className="dnb-core-style">...</Modal>

/* You have the option to set it like this as well as markup only */
<body>
  <div id="app" />
  <div id="dnb-modal-root" class="dnb-core-style" />
</body>
```

Commit message:

chore(docs): update info about nested modals

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/modal/info.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

import Img from 'Tags/Img'
import ModalExample from './assets/modal-example.svg'
import ModalExampleButtons from './assets/modal-example-buttons.svg'

## Description

NB! Modal dialogs interrupt users and demand an action. They are appropriate when user’s attention needs to be directed toward important information.

### Behavior

The modal can be triggered from either a button or by using the `open_state` property. Triggering a modal will activate the opaque overlay and display the contents.

### Help button

As the Modal is very often used in combination with other components and often as a enhancement of contextual content, it comes with a trigger button ([HelpButton](/uilib/components/help-button)) with a question mark icon by default. You can for sure disable that behavior by using `trigger_hidden="true"`.

You can also used the broadly available `suffix` property, like so:

```jsx
<Input
  label="Input"
  placeholder="Placeholder ..."
  suffix={<HelpButton>Help text</HelpButton>}
/>
```

### Accessibility

In order to make modals accessible, a lot of things are considered.

Entering a Modal / Drawer will:

1. Set focus on the heading or close button.
2. Enable escape key listener.
3. Invalidate every DOM element outside of the Modal / Drawer, so they are not accessible to keyboard and screen reader users. For doing that, there is a [helper function](/uilib/helpers/functions#interactioninvalidation-example) to be used in your application as well.
4. Disable the body scroll possibility.
5. Make the Modal / Drawer scrollable if needed.
6. Dim the body / background with an overlay

### Structure and content

Typically an opaque cover over the main content (fullscreen) and a small centered box containing information and interactive elements (buttons, forms etc.)

### What is it

Modal dialogs appear on top of the main content changing the _mode_ of the system into a special mode requiring user interaction. The main content is disabled until the user interacts with the modal dialog.

### Disadvantages of modal Dialogs

1.  They require immediate attention
1.  They interrupt users
1.  They cause users to forget what they were doing
1.  They add extra goals - reading, interacting and closing the Modal
1.  They block the content in the background

### Guidelines

1.  Use for important warnings as a way to prevent or correct critical errors.
1.  Do not use for unessential information that is not related to the users current workflow.
1.  Use for requesting the user to enter information critical to the current process.

#### Nested modals

While it is possible to nest a Modal within another Modal, You as a developer has to ensure the Browsers back-button (alongside with the URL path), does take care of the nested Modal situation. Because a user should still be able to use the back button as expected and return to the last visited "page".

### Design Patterns

<Img src={ModalExample} caption="Modal with header, text and close button (spacing suggestions in blue and pink)" alt="Image showing Modal with header" />

<Img src={ModalExampleButtons} caption="Modal with header, text, buttons and close button" alt="Image showing Modal with header and clsoe button" />

## Root Element

**NB:** If the wrapper is not set manually, a wrapper is inserted automatically as a child node to the body.

To make sure the HTML structure is decoupled from all the page content, You can optionally define a wrapper div like `<div class="dnb-modal-root" />`.

Just place this as a sibling of Your App root HTML element. This ensures that we always can stack the modal content above the App Content.

```html
<body>
  <div id="app" />
  <div id="dnb-modal-root" />
</body>
```

### Z-index

The Modal component is using **3000** as the `z-index`.

```css
:root {
  --modal-z-index: 3000;
}
```

## Sizing and spacing

You have the properties `min_width` and `max_width`. But by using these, the width styles get injected inline, which normal circumstances works fine. But in case you want to set it by CSS, you can do so:

```css
/* Change the Modal size  */
.dnb-modal__content__inner {
  min-width: 20vw;
  max-width: 40rem;
}

/* Change the Modal spacing  */
:root {
  /* Defaults to --spacing-large */
  --modal-spacing: var(--spacing-small);
}
```

## Inner section wrapper

In order to make it easier to have another colored area below the title, you can make use of the extra wrapper `<Modal.Inner>`. Underneath, the [Section](/uilib/components/section) is used, but with the color `black-3` as default. This extra "section" is also customized to work together with the Modal and Drawer component.

```jsx
<Modal mode="drawer">
  <Modal.Inner spacing>Modal Content</Modal.Inner>
</Modal>
```

## Styles and `dnb-core-style`

The Modal component comes with the `dnb-core-style` class predefined by default. If you don't want this behavior because of e.g. CSS specificity, you can opt out by setting this property `prevent_core_style` to true.

```jsx
/* The CSS class is set by default */
<Modal className="dnb-core-style">...</Modal>

/* You have the option to set it like this as well as markup only */
<body>
  <div id="app" />
  <div id="dnb-modal-root" class="dnb-core-style" />
</body>
```
