packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/modal/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Modal Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                                        | _(optional)_ the id used internal in the modal/drawer root element. Defaults to `root`, so the element id will be `dnb-modal-root`.                                                                                                          |
| `content_id`                                | _(optional)_ defines an unique identifier to a modal. Use it in case you have to refer in some way to the modal/drawer content wrapper.                                                                                                      |
| `title`                                     | _(optional)_ the modal/drawer title. Displays on the very top of the content.                                                                                                                                                                |
| `mode`                                      | _(optional)_ the modal/drawer mode. Can be set to `drawer`. Defaults to `modal`.                                                                                                                                                             |
| `labelled_by`                               | _(optional)_ the ID of the trigger component, describing the modal/drawer content. Defaults to the internal `trigger`, so make sure You define the `trigger_title`.                                                                          |
| `children` or `modal_content`               | _(optional)_ the content which will appear when triggering the modal/drawer.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `header_content`                            | _(optional)_ the content which will appear in the header of the modal/drawer the modal/drawer.                                                                                                                                               |
| `bar_content`                               | _(optional)_ the content which will appear in the bar, above the header, and side-by-side the close button.                                                                                                                                  |
| `min_width`                                 | _(optional)_ the minimum Modal content width, defined by a CSS width value like `50vw` (50% of the viewport). Be careful on using fixed `min_width` so you don't break responsiveness. Defaults to `30rem` (average width is set to `60vw`). |
| `max_width`                                 | _(optional)_ the maximum Modal content width, defined by a CSS width value like `20rem`. Defaults to `60rem` (average width is set to `60vw`).                                                                                               |
| `fullscreen`                                | _(optional)_ if set to `true` then the modal/drawer content will be shown as fullscreen, without showing the original content behind. Can be set to `false` to omit the auto fullscreen. Defaults to `auto`.                                 |
| `spacing`                                   | _(optional)_ if set to `false` then the modal/drawer content will be shown without any spacing. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                          |
| `align_content`                             | _(optional)_ Define the inner horizontal alignment of the content. Can be set to `left`, `center`, `right` and `centered`. If `centered`, then the content will also be centered vertically. Defaults to `left`.                             |
| `container_placement`                       | _(optional)_ For `drawer` mode only. Defines the placement on what side the Drawer should be opened. Can be set to `left`, `right`, `top` and `bottom`. Defaults to `right`.                                                                 |
| `open_state`                                | _(optional)_ use this prop to control the open/close state by setting either: `opened` / `closed` or `true` / `false`.                                                                                                                       |
| `open_delay`                                | _(optional)_ forces the modal/drawer to delay the opening. The delay is given in `ms`.                                                                                                                                                       |
| `close_title`                               | _(optional)_ the title of the close button. Defaults to _Close Modal Window_.                                                                                                                                                                |
| `hide_close_button`                         | _(optional)_ if truthy, the close button will not be shown.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `close_button_attributes`                   | _(optional)_ define any valid Eufemia Button property or HTML attribute inside an object.                                                                                                                                                    |
| `no_animation`                              | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, no open/close animation will be shown. Defaults to false.                                                                                                                                                     |
| `no_animation_on_mobile`                    | _(optional)_ same as `no_animation`, but gets triggered only if the viewport width is less than `40em`. Defaults to false.                                                                                                                   |
| `prevent_close`                             | _(optional)_ if set to `true` (boolean or string), then the user can't close the modal/drawer.                                                                                                                                               |
| `prevent_core_style`                        | _(optional)_ by default the modal/drawer content gets added the core style class `dnb-core-style`. Use `false` to disable this behavior.                                                                                                     |
| `open_modal`                                | _(optional)_ set a function to call the callback function, once the modal/drawer should open: `open_modal={(open) => open()}`                                                                                                                |
| `close_modal`                               | _(optional)_ set a function to call the callback function, once the modal/drawer should close: `close_modal={(close) => close()}`                                                                                                            |
| `focus_selector`                            | _(optional)_ The Modal handles the first focus – automatically. How ever, you can defined a custom focus selector the will be used instead `focus_selector=".css-selector"`.                                                                 |
| `overlay_class`                             | _(optional)_ give the page overlay a custom class name (maps to `dnb-modal__overlay`).                                                                                                                                                       |
| `content_class`                             | _(optional)_ give the content wrapper a custom class name (maps to `dnb-modal__content`).                                                                                                                                                    |
| `class` or `className`                      | _(optional)_ give the inner content wrapper a class name (maps to `dnb-modal__content__inner`).                                                                                                                                              |
| `trigger_attributes`                        | _(optional)_ send along custom HTML attributes or properties to the trigger button.                                                                                                                                                          |
| `trigger_hidden`                            | _(optional)_ if truthy, no trigger button will be show. This can be used in combination with `open_state="opened"`.                                                                                                                          |
| `trigger_variant`                           | _(optional)_ the modal/drawer triggering button variant. Defaults to `secondary`.                                                                                                                                                            |
| `trigger_text`                              | _(optional)_ if type is set to `text`, this will be the text which triggers the modal/drawer. If set to `button` it will be the `title` attribute of the button.                                                                             |
| `trigger_title`                             | _(optional)_ the modal/drawer triggering button title.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `trigger_icon`                              | _(optional)_ the modal/drawer triggering button icon. Can be used instead of a `trigger_text`. Defaults to `question`.                                                                                                                       |
| `trigger_icon_position`                     | _(optional)_ defines the modal/drawer triggering icon position. Defaults to `left` because of the tertiary button variant.                                                                                                                   |
| `trigger_class`                             | _(optional)_ adds a custom modal trigger class name.                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `trigger_disabled`                          | _(optional)_ if truthy, then the trigger button can't be opened.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                        |

### Drawer sizes

The Drawer is responsive with the following properties:

```css
--modal-drawer-width: 40vw;
--modal-drawer-min-width: 25rem;
--modal-drawer-max-width: 40rem;
```

## Trigger Properties

Properties targeting the trigger component (Button), but they will be set the same way as the all the other properties:

```jsx
<Modal trigger_icon="primary_icon" right="small">
  ... content ...
</Modal>
```

Commit message:

fix: fix Modal DOM attribute cleanup during close when open_state is used

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/modal/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Modal Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                                        | _(optional)_ the id used internal in the modal/drawer root element. Defaults to `root`, so the element id will be `dnb-modal-root`.                                                                                                          |
| `content_id`                                | _(optional)_ defines an unique identifier to a modal. Use it in case you have to refer in some way to the modal/drawer content wrapper.                                                                                                      |
| `title`                                     | _(optional)_ the modal/drawer title. Displays on the very top of the content.                                                                                                                                                                |
| `mode`                                      | _(optional)_ the modal/drawer mode. Can be set to `drawer`. Defaults to `modal`.                                                                                                                                                             |
| `labelled_by`                               | _(optional)_ the ID of the trigger component, describing the modal/drawer content. Defaults to the internal `trigger`, so make sure You define the `trigger_title`.                                                                          |
| `children` or `modal_content`               | _(optional)_ the content which will appear when triggering the modal/drawer.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `header_content`                            | _(optional)_ the content which will appear in the header of the modal/drawer the modal/drawer.                                                                                                                                               |
| `bar_content`                               | _(optional)_ the content which will appear in the bar, above the header, and side-by-side the close button.                                                                                                                                  |
| `min_width`                                 | _(optional)_ the minimum Modal content width, defined by a CSS width value like `50vw` (50% of the viewport). Be careful on using fixed `min_width` so you don't break responsiveness. Defaults to `30rem` (average width is set to `60vw`). |
| `max_width`                                 | _(optional)_ the maximum Modal content width, defined by a CSS width value like `20rem`. Defaults to `60rem` (average width is set to `60vw`).                                                                                               |
| `fullscreen`                                | _(optional)_ if set to `true` then the modal/drawer content will be shown as fullscreen, without showing the original content behind. Can be set to `false` to omit the auto fullscreen. Defaults to `auto`.                                 |
| `spacing`                                   | _(optional)_ if set to `false` then the modal/drawer content will be shown without any spacing. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                          |
| `align_content`                             | _(optional)_ Define the inner horizontal alignment of the content. Can be set to `left`, `center`, `right` and `centered`. If `centered`, then the content will also be centered vertically. Defaults to `left`.                             |
| `container_placement`                       | _(optional)_ For `drawer` mode only. Defines the placement on what side the Drawer should be opened. Can be set to `left`, `right`, `top` and `bottom`. Defaults to `right`.                                                                 |
| `open_state`                                | _(optional)_ use this prop to control the open/close state by setting either: `opened` / `closed` or `true` / `false`.                                                                                                                       |
| `open_delay`                                | _(optional)_ forces the modal/drawer to delay the opening. The delay is given in `ms`.                                                                                                                                                       |
| `close_title`                               | _(optional)_ the title of the close button. Defaults to _Close Modal Window_.                                                                                                                                                                |
| `hide_close_button`                         | _(optional)_ if truthy, the close button will not be shown.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `close_button_attributes`                   | _(optional)_ define any valid Eufemia Button property or HTML attribute inside an object.                                                                                                                                                    |
| `no_animation`                              | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, no open/close animation will be shown. Defaults to false.                                                                                                                                                     |
| `no_animation_on_mobile`                    | _(optional)_ same as `no_animation`, but gets triggered only if the viewport width is less than `40em`. Defaults to false.                                                                                                                   |
| `prevent_close`                             | _(optional)_ if set to `true` (boolean or string), then the user can't close the modal/drawer.                                                                                                                                               |
| `prevent_core_style`                        | _(optional)_ by default the modal/drawer content gets added the core style class `dnb-core-style`. Use `false` to disable this behavior.                                                                                                     |
| `open_modal`                                | _(optional)_ set a function to call the callback function, once the modal/drawer should open: `open_modal={(open) => open()}`                                                                                                                |
| `close_modal`                               | _(optional)_ set a function to call the callback function, once the modal/drawer should close: `close_modal={(close) => close()}`                                                                                                            |
| `focus_selector`                            | _(optional)_ The Modal handles the first focus – automatically. How ever, you can defined a custom focus selector the will be used instead `focus_selector=".css-selector"`.                                                                 |
| `overlay_class`                             | _(optional)_ give the page overlay a custom class name (maps to `dnb-modal__overlay`).                                                                                                                                                       |
| `content_class`                             | _(optional)_ give the content wrapper a custom class name (maps to `dnb-modal__content`).                                                                                                                                                    |
| `class` or `className`                      | _(optional)_ give the inner content wrapper a class name (maps to `dnb-modal__content__inner`).                                                                                                                                              |
| `trigger`                                   | _(optional)_ provide a custom trigger component. Like `trigger={<Anchor href="/" />}`. It will set the focus on it when the modal/drawer gets closed.                                                                                        |
| `trigger_attributes`                        | _(optional)_ send along custom HTML attributes or properties to the trigger button.                                                                                                                                                          |
| `trigger_hidden`                            | _(optional)_ if truthy, no trigger button will be show. This can be used in combination with `open_state="opened"`.                                                                                                                          |
| `trigger_variant`                           | _(optional)_ the modal/drawer triggering button variant. Defaults to `secondary`.                                                                                                                                                            |
| `trigger_text`                              | _(optional)_ if type is set to `text`, this will be the text which triggers the modal/drawer. If set to `button` it will be the `title` attribute of the button.                                                                             |
| `trigger_title`                             | _(optional)_ the modal/drawer triggering button title.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `trigger_icon`                              | _(optional)_ the modal/drawer triggering button icon. Can be used instead of a `trigger_text`. Defaults to `question`.                                                                                                                       |
| `trigger_icon_position`                     | _(optional)_ defines the modal/drawer triggering icon position. Defaults to `left` because of the tertiary button variant.                                                                                                                   |
| `trigger_class`                             | _(optional)_ adds a custom modal trigger class name.                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `trigger_disabled`                          | _(optional)_ if truthy, then the trigger button can't be opened.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                        |

### Drawer sizes

The Drawer is responsive with the following properties:

```css
--modal-drawer-width: 40vw;
--modal-drawer-min-width: 25rem;
--modal-drawer-max-width: 40rem;
```

## Trigger Properties

Properties targeting the trigger component (Button), but they will be set the same way as the all the other properties:

```jsx
<Modal trigger_icon="primary_icon" right="small">
  ... content ...
</Modal>
```
