packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/modal/prop-table.md, before:

| Properties                                                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                                                            | _(optional)_ The id used internal for the trigger button and Modal component.                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `rootId` / `root_id`                                            | _(optional)_ The id used internal in the modal root element. Defaults to `root`, so the element id will be `dnb-modal-root`.                                                                                                                    |
| `contentId` / `content_id`                                      | _(optional)_ Defines an unique identifier to a modal. Use it in case you have to refer in some way to the modal content.                                                                                                                        |
| `labelledBy` / `labelled_by`                                    | _(optional)_ The ID of the trigger component, describing the modal content. Defaults to the internal `trigger`, so make sure You define the `title` in `triggerAttributes`.                                                                     |
| `children`                                                      | _(optional)_ the content which will appear when triggering open the modal. Make sure you set `mode="custom"` to enable custom modal content. If mode is not set, the children will be sent to the [Dialog](/uilib/components/dialog) component. |
| `fullscreen`                                                    | _(optional)_ If set to `true` then the modal content will be shown as fullscreen, without showing the original content behind. Can be set to `false` to omit the auto fullscreen. Defaults to `auto`.                                           |
| `openState` / `open_state`                                      | _(optional)_ use this prop to control the open/close state by setting either: `opened` / `closed` or `true` / `false`.                                                                                                                          |
| `openDelay` / `open_delay`                                      | _(optional)_ forces the modal to delay the opening. The delay is given in `ms`.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `disabled`                                                      | _(optional)_ Will disable the trigger button                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `noAnimation` / `no_animation`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, no open/close animation will be shown. Defaults to false.                                                                                                                                                        |
| `noAnimationOnMobile` / `no_animation_on_mobile`                | _(optional)_ same as `noAnimation`, but gets triggered only if the viewport width is less than `40em`. Defaults to false.                                                                                                                       |
| `animationDuration` / `animation_duration`                      | _(optional)_ Duration of animation open/close in ms. Defaults to 300ms.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `preventClose` / `prevent_close`                                | _(optional)_ if set to `true` (boolean or string), then the user can't close the modal.                                                                                                                                                         |
| `preventOverlayClose` / `prevent_overlay_close`                 | _(optional)_ Disable clicking the background overlay to close the modal. PS! Pressing `esc` key will still close the modal.                                                                                                                     |
| `openModal` / `open_modal`                                      | _(optional)_ set a function to call the callback function, once the modal should open: `open_modal={(open) => open()}`                                                                                                                          |
| `closeModal` / `close_modal`                                    | _(optional)_ set a function to call the callback function, once the modal should close: `close_modal={(close) => close()}`                                                                                                                      |
| `focusSelector` / `focus_selector`                              | _(optional)_ The Modal handles the first focus – automatically. However, you can define a custom focus selector the will be used instead `focusSelector=".css-selector"`.                                                                       |
| `overlayClass` / `overlay_class`                                | _(optional)_ give the page overlay a custom class name (maps to `dnb-modal__overlay`).                                                                                                                                                          |
| `contentClass` / `content_class`                                | _(optional)_ give the content wrapper a custom class name (maps to `dnb-modal__content`).                                                                                                                                                       |
| `omitTriggerButton` / `omit_trigger_button`                     | _(optional)_ omits default showing trigger button.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `trigger`                                                       | _(optional)_ provide a custom trigger component. Like `trigger={<Anchor href="/" />}`. It will set the focus on it when the modal gets closed.                                                                                                  |
| `triggerAttributes` / `trigger_attributes`                      | _(optional)_ send along with custom HTML attributes or properties to the trigger button.                                                                                                                                                        |
| `dialogTitle` / `dialog_title`                                  | _(optional)_ The aria label of the dialog when no labelled_by and no title is given. Defaults to `Vindu`.                                                                                                                                       |
| `directDomReturn` / `direct_dom_return`                         | _(optional)_ If truthy, the modal will not open in a new DOM but directly in current DOM. Defaults to `false`. Be aware of the side effects of setting this property to `true`.                                                                 |
| `bypassInvalidationSelectors` / `bypass_invalidation_selectors` | _(optional)_ Define an array with HTML class selectors (`['.element-selector']`) which should not get invalidated when the modal opens/closes. Use this in order to let some parts of your site still be accessible by screen readers.          |
| `scrollRef`                                                     | _(optional)_ To get the scroll Element, pass in your own React ref.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `contentRef`                                                    | _(optional)_ To get the inner content Element, pass in your own React ref.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties)                     | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `mode`                                                          | _(deprecated/optional)_ the modal mode. Can be set to `dialog`, `drawer` or `custom`. Defaults to `dialog`.                                                                                                                                     |
| `spacing`                                                       | _(deprecated/optional)_ if set to `false` then the modal content will be shown without any spacing. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                         |
| `closeTitle` / `close_title`                                    | _(deprecated/optional)_ the title of the close button. Defaults to _Lukk_.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `hideCloseButton`                                               | _(deprecated/optional)_ if truthy, the close button will not be shown.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `class` or `className`                                          | _(deprecated/optional)_ give the inner content wrapper a class name (maps to `dnb-modal__content__inner`).                                                                                                                                      |

Commit message:

feat(Modal): remove mode prop

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/modal/prop-table.md, after:

| Properties                                                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                                                            | _(optional)_ The id used internal for the trigger button and Modal component.                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `rootId` / `root_id`                                            | _(optional)_ The id used internal in the modal root element. Defaults to `root`, so the element id will be `dnb-modal-root`.                                                                                                                    |
| `contentId` / `content_id`                                      | _(optional)_ Defines an unique identifier to a modal. Use it in case you have to refer in some way to the modal content.                                                                                                                        |
| `labelledBy` / `labelled_by`                                    | _(optional)_ The ID of the trigger component, describing the modal content. Defaults to the internal `trigger`, so make sure You define the `title` in `triggerAttributes`.                                                                     |
| `children`                                                      | _(optional)_ the content which will appear when triggering open the modal. Make sure you set `mode="custom"` to enable custom modal content. If mode is not set, the children will be sent to the [Dialog](/uilib/components/dialog) component. |
| `fullscreen`                                                    | _(optional)_ If set to `true` then the modal content will be shown as fullscreen, without showing the original content behind. Can be set to `false` to omit the auto fullscreen. Defaults to `auto`.                                           |
| `openState` / `open_state`                                      | _(optional)_ use this prop to control the open/close state by setting either: `opened` / `closed` or `true` / `false`.                                                                                                                          |
| `openDelay` / `open_delay`                                      | _(optional)_ forces the modal to delay the opening. The delay is given in `ms`.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `disabled`                                                      | _(optional)_ Will disable the trigger button                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `noAnimation` / `no_animation`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, no open/close animation will be shown. Defaults to false.                                                                                                                                                        |
| `noAnimationOnMobile` / `no_animation_on_mobile`                | _(optional)_ same as `noAnimation`, but gets triggered only if the viewport width is less than `40em`. Defaults to false.                                                                                                                       |
| `animationDuration` / `animation_duration`                      | _(optional)_ Duration of animation open/close in ms. Defaults to 300ms.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `preventClose` / `prevent_close`                                | _(optional)_ if set to `true` (boolean or string), then the user can't close the modal.                                                                                                                                                         |
| `preventOverlayClose` / `prevent_overlay_close`                 | _(optional)_ Disable clicking the background overlay to close the modal. PS! Pressing `esc` key will still close the modal.                                                                                                                     |
| `openModal` / `open_modal`                                      | _(optional)_ set a function to call the callback function, once the modal should open: `open_modal={(open) => open()}`                                                                                                                          |
| `closeModal` / `close_modal`                                    | _(optional)_ set a function to call the callback function, once the modal should close: `close_modal={(close) => close()}`                                                                                                                      |
| `focusSelector` / `focus_selector`                              | _(optional)_ The Modal handles the first focus – automatically. However, you can define a custom focus selector the will be used instead `focusSelector=".css-selector"`.                                                                       |
| `overlayClass` / `overlay_class`                                | _(optional)_ give the page overlay a custom class name (maps to `dnb-modal__overlay`).                                                                                                                                                          |
| `contentClass` / `content_class`                                | _(optional)_ give the content wrapper a custom class name (maps to `dnb-modal__content`).                                                                                                                                                       |
| `omitTriggerButton` / `omit_trigger_button`                     | _(optional)_ omits default showing trigger button.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `trigger`                                                       | _(optional)_ provide a custom trigger component. Like `trigger={<Anchor href="/" />}`. It will set the focus on it when the modal gets closed.                                                                                                  |
| `triggerAttributes` / `trigger_attributes`                      | _(optional)_ send along with custom HTML attributes or properties to the trigger button.                                                                                                                                                        |
| `dialogTitle` / `dialog_title`                                  | _(optional)_ The aria label of the dialog when no labelled_by and no title is given. Defaults to `Vindu`.                                                                                                                                       |
| `directDomReturn` / `direct_dom_return`                         | _(optional)_ If truthy, the modal will not open in a new DOM but directly in current DOM. Defaults to `false`. Be aware of the side effects of setting this property to `true`.                                                                 |
| `bypassInvalidationSelectors` / `bypass_invalidation_selectors` | _(optional)_ Define an array with HTML class selectors (`['.element-selector']`) which should not get invalidated when the modal opens/closes. Use this in order to let some parts of your site still be accessible by screen readers.          |
| `scrollRef`                                                     | _(optional)_ To get the scroll Element, pass in your own React ref.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `contentRef`                                                    | _(optional)_ To get the inner content Element, pass in your own React ref.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties)                     | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `closeTitle` / `close_title`                                    | _(optional)_ the title of the close button. Defaults to _Lukk_.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `hideCloseButton` / `hide_close_button`                         | _(optional)_ if truthy, the close button will not be shown.                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `closeButtonAttributes` / `close_button_attributes`             | _(optional)_ define any valid Eufemia [Button properties](/uilib/components/button/properties) or HTML attribute inside an object.                                                                                                              |
