packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/contribution/issues.md, before:

---
title: 'Known issues'
---

# Known issues

## Dependencies

## node-sass vs sass

The Portal (documentations) uses dart based `sass`, while the bundle and build process of the package `@dnb/eufemia` uses `node-sass` – because:

- we render sass styles during jest tests with `sass.renderSync` – even that should work with `sass` as well, it can't find the [file it says](https://github.com/sass/dart-sass/issues/710).
- several places a module called `node-sass-once-importer` is used, that is compatible only with `node-sass`.
- it uses `sass-loader` v10 because `TypeError: this.getOptions is not a function`.
- it uses `node-sass` v5, else we get this error message during portal run:

  ```
  ERROR in polyfill
  Module not found: TypeError: Cannot read property 'indexOf' of
  undefined
  ```

### puppeteer

- When upgrading to a newer version than v8, puppeteer behaves inconsistent. Sometimes the content is just tiny bit off. But most importantly, > v10.4 is very inconsistent and off running on the GitHub Actions maxOS.

### eslint

- Where some issues with newer versions than v7.19.0. This may be fixed in later versions.

## Storybook

The sandbox Storybook setup is using the default `@storybook/preset-scss` addon with the recommended dependencies. But for some reason, we cant use the latest versions of the following dependencies:

- `sass-loader` v10.2.0
- `style-loader` v2.0.0
- `css-loader` v5.2.7

We get else this error:

> Type Error: this.getOptions is not a function for style-loader

## Yarn PnP

Currently, Eufemia uses yarn v3 with `node_modules`.

When switching over to Yarn PnP, there are some issues:

- Storybook:
  ```bash
  ERROR in eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/@dnb-eufemia-virtual-761b82657c/1/packages/dnb-eufemia/src/components/slider/style/dnb-range.scss (eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/css-loader-virtual-37c5c374e4/0/cache/css-loader-npm-5.2.7-e1e8b8d16f-fb0742b30a.zip/node_modules/css-loader/dist/cjs.js!eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/sass-loader-virtual-577853f541/0/cache/sass-loader-npm-10.2.0-91ed64638b-d53212e5d1.zip/node_modules/sass-loader/dist/cjs.js!eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/@dnb-eufemia-virtual-761b82657c/1/packages/dnb-eufemia/src/components/slider/style/dnb-range.scss)
  Module build failed (from eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/sass-loader-virtual-577853f541/0/cache/sass-loader-npm-10.2.0-91ed64638b-d53212e5d1.zip/node_modules/sass-loader/dist/cjs.js):
  SassError: File to import not found or unreadable: eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/@dnb-eufemia-virtual-761b82657c/1/packages/dnb-eufemia/src/style/components/imports.scss.
          on line 6 of ../../.yarn/__virtual__/@dnb-eufemia-virtual-761b82657c/1/packages/dnb-eufemia/src/components/slider/style/dnb-range.scss
  >> @import '../../../style/components/imports.scss';
  ```
- Gatsby
  ```bash
  gatsby-plugin-mdx tried to access mkdirp, but it isn't declared in its dependencies; this makes the require call ambiguous and unsound.
  ```

Commit message:

Enhance Portal Setup (#1107)
* chore: update deps

* chore: make prettier work with PnP

* chore: upgrade eslint

* chore: replace rimraf with emptyDir instead of adding it as a deps

* chore: remove sw.js during development

* chore: fix handling of path for fullscreen and visual testing

* chore: make GitHub Action branch checks strict

* chore: submit and search in beta index when not on release

This will prevent that prebuilds on Gatsby Cloud do submit search queries to the prod index.

* chore: make sure a correct slug is use during prod build

* chore: remove invalid aria-label usage

* chore: only add offline plugin during release

* chore: replace live-server by using Gatsby Serve as it is much more polite

* chore: make styles import work during prod build

* chore: update deps

* docs: add repository.md docs file

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/contribution/issues.md, after:

---
title: 'Known issues'
---

# Known issues

## Dependencies

## node-sass vs sass

The Portal (documentations) uses dart based `sass`, while the bundle and build process of the package `@dnb/eufemia` uses `node-sass` – because:

- we render sass styles during jest tests with `sass.renderSync` – even that should work with `sass` as well, it can't find the [file it says](https://github.com/sass/dart-sass/issues/710).
- several places a module called `node-sass-once-importer` is used, that is compatible only with `node-sass`.
- it uses `sass-loader` v10 because `TypeError: this.getOptions is not a function`.
- it uses `node-sass` v5, else we get this error message during portal run:

  ```
  ERROR in polyfill
  Module not found: TypeError: Cannot read property 'indexOf' of
  undefined
  ```

### puppeteer

- When upgrading to a newer version than v8, puppeteer behaves inconsistent. Sometimes the content is just tiny bit off. But most importantly, > v10.4 is very inconsistent and off running on the GitHub Actions maxOS.

### Stylelint

- v14 has changed a good amount of their default styling rules. Updating would require us to refactor a good amount of SCSS code. We are currently on v13.

## Storybook

The sandbox Storybook setup is using the default `@storybook/preset-scss` addon with the recommended dependencies. But for some reason, we cant use the latest versions of the following dependencies:

- `sass-loader` v10.2.0
- `style-loader` v2.0.0
- `css-loader` v5.2.7

We get else this error:

> Type Error: this.getOptions is not a function for style-loader

## Yarn PnP

Currently, Eufemia uses yarn v3 with `node_modules`.

When switching over to Yarn PnP, there are some issues:

- Storybook:
  ```bash
  ERROR in eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/@dnb-eufemia-virtual-761b82657c/1/packages/dnb-eufemia/src/components/slider/style/dnb-range.scss (eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/css-loader-virtual-37c5c374e4/0/cache/css-loader-npm-5.2.7-e1e8b8d16f-fb0742b30a.zip/node_modules/css-loader/dist/cjs.js!eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/sass-loader-virtual-577853f541/0/cache/sass-loader-npm-10.2.0-91ed64638b-d53212e5d1.zip/node_modules/sass-loader/dist/cjs.js!eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/@dnb-eufemia-virtual-761b82657c/1/packages/dnb-eufemia/src/components/slider/style/dnb-range.scss)
  Module build failed (from eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/sass-loader-virtual-577853f541/0/cache/sass-loader-npm-10.2.0-91ed64638b-d53212e5d1.zip/node_modules/sass-loader/dist/cjs.js):
  SassError: File to import not found or unreadable: eufemia/.yarn/__virtual__/@dnb-eufemia-virtual-761b82657c/1/packages/dnb-eufemia/src/style/components/imports.scss.
          on line 6 of ../../.yarn/__virtual__/@dnb-eufemia-virtual-761b82657c/1/packages/dnb-eufemia/src/components/slider/style/dnb-range.scss
  >> @import '../../../style/components/imports.scss';
  ```
- Gatsby
  ```bash
  gatsby-plugin-mdx tried to access mkdirp, but it isn't declared in its dependencies; this makes the require call ambiguous and unsound.
  ```
