packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/accordion/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Accordion and AccordionProvider Properties  | Description                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                                        | _(optional)_ docs.                                                    |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported. |

| AccordionProvider Properties                | Description                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `expanded_id`                               | _(optional)_ expanded_id docs.                                        |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported. |

Commit message:

chore(docs): add skeleton property to supported components

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/accordion/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Accordion and AccordionProvider Properties  | Description                                                                         |
| ------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `id`                                        | _(optional)_ docs.                                                                  |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, an overlaying skeleton with animation will be shown. |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.               |

| AccordionProvider Properties                | Description                                                           |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `expanded_id`                               | _(optional)_ expanded_id docs.                                        |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported. |
