packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/elements/anchor/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: false
draft: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                      | Description                                                                             |
| ----------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `href`                                          | _(optional)_ relative or absolute url.                                                  |
| `target`                                        | _(optional)_ defines the opening method. Use `_blank` to open a new browser window/tab. |
| `target_blank_title`                            | _(optional)_ the title shown as a tooltip when target is set to `_blank`.               |
| [Tooltip](/uilib/components/tooltip/properties) | _(optional)_ define tooltip content or props.                                           |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties)     | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                   |

Commit message:

fix: add element prop to #anchor

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/elements/anchor/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: false
draft: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                      | Description                                                                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `element`                                       | _(optional)_ define what HTML or React element should be used (e.g. `element={Link}`). Defaults to semantic `a` element. |
| `href`                                          | _(optional)_ relative or absolute url.                                                                                   |
| `target`                                        | _(optional)_ defines the opening method. Use `_blank` to open a new browser window/tab.                                  |
| `target_blank_title`                            | _(optional)_ the title shown as a tooltip when target is set to `_blank`.                                                |
| [Tooltip](/uilib/components/tooltip/properties) | _(optional)_ define tooltip content or props.                                                                            |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties)     | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                    |
