packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/icon/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `icon`                                      | _(mandatory)_ a React SVG Component or the icon name (in case we use `IconPrimary` or `dnb-icon-primary`).                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `title`                                     | _(optional)_ Use a title to provide extra information about the icon used.                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `border`                                    | _(optional)_ use `true` to display a rounded border with an inherited color. Keep in mind that the icon will have a larger total width and height of `+0.5em`.                                                                                                                         |
| `alt`                                       | _(optional)_ the alternative label (text version) of the icon. Defaults to the imported icon name.                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `size`                                      | _(optional)_ the dimension of the icon. This will be the `viewBox` and represent `width` and `height`. Defaults to `16`. You can use `small`,`medium`, `large` or `auto`. Auto will enable that the icon size gets inherited by the mother HTML element, if it provides a `font-size`. |
| `color`                                     | _(optional)_ sets a color property to the `svg` markup. Default is no color, which means _black_                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `inherit_color`                             | _(optional)_ Default to `true`. Set to `false` if you do not want to inherit the color by `currentColor`.                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `modifier`                                  | _(optional)_ modifier class to define. Will result in: `dnb-icon--${modifier}`.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Commit message:

chore(docs): add skeleton property to supported components

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/icon/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `icon`                                      | _(mandatory)_ a React SVG Component or the icon name (in case we use `IconPrimary` or `dnb-icon-primary`).                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `title`                                     | _(optional)_ Use a title to provide extra information about the icon used.                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `border`                                    | _(optional)_ use `true` to display a rounded border with an inherited color. Keep in mind that the icon will have a larger total width and height of `+0.5em`.                                                                                                                         |
| `alt`                                       | _(optional)_ the alternative label (text version) of the icon. Defaults to the imported icon name.                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `size`                                      | _(optional)_ the dimension of the icon. This will be the `viewBox` and represent `width` and `height`. Defaults to `16`. You can use `small`,`medium`, `large` or `auto`. Auto will enable that the icon size gets inherited by the mother HTML element, if it provides a `font-size`. |
| `color`                                     | _(optional)_ sets a color property to the `svg` markup. Default is no color, which means _black_                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `inherit_color`                             | _(optional)_ Default to `true`. Set to `false` if you do not want to inherit the color by `currentColor`.                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `modifier`                                  | _(optional)_ modifier class to define. Will result in: `dnb-icon--${modifier}`.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, an overlaying skeleton with animation will be shown.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
