packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/contribute/style-guides/issues.md, before:

---
title: 'Issue reporting'
order: 4
---

import InlineImg from 'dnb-design-system-portal/src/shared/tags/Img'

# Issue reporting

If you discover a **security issue** in the @dnb/eufemia, please report it by sending an
email to [tobias.hoegh@dnb.no](mailto:tobias.hoegh@dnb.no). This will allow us to assess the risk, and make a fix available before we add a
bug report to the GitHub repository. Thanks for helping out.

When reporting issues or suggesting new features, we would appreciate if you to use [Github Issues](https://github.com/dnbexperience/eufemia/issues) or our [Jira Kanban board](https://jira.tech.dnb.no/projects/EDS/summary#). Another option is to send a Slack message in [#eufemia-web](https://dnb-it.slack.com/archives/CMXABCHEY).

## Github issues

When reporting issues on Github, you need to have a [Github account](https://github.com/join).

First step is to click on the `New issue` button in the `Issues tab` on Github.

<InlineImg src="/images/report-issue.png" width="900" alt="Screenshot of the location of new issue button on Github" top bottom/>

The next step will show you all the possibilities for new issues. Create a new `Bug Report` or `Feature Proposal` to go next.

<InlineImg src="/images/report-issue-part-2.png" width="900" alt="Screenshot of the possibilities in creating a new issue" top/>

These will each have a prepared template you need to fill out in order to submit your issue.

Commit message:

feat(Version): run Eufemia.version in your browser console

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/contribute/style-guides/issues.md, after:

---
title: 'Issue reporting'
order: 4
---

import InlineImg from 'dnb-design-system-portal/src/shared/tags/Img'

# Issue reporting

If you discover a **security issue** in the `@dnb/eufemia` library, please report it by sending an
email to [tobias.hoegh@dnb.no](mailto:tobias.hoegh@dnb.no). This will allow us to assess the risk, and make a fix available before we add a
bug report to the GitHub repository. Thanks for helping out.

When reporting issues or suggesting new features, we would appreciate if you use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/dnbexperience/eufemia/issues) or our [Jira Kanban board](https://jira.tech.dnb.no/projects/EDS/summary#). Another option is to send a Slack message in [#eufemia-web](https://dnb-it.slack.com/archives/CMXABCHEY).

## GitHub issues

When reporting issues on GitHub, you need to have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

First step is to click on the `New issue` button in the `Issues tab` on GitHub.

<InlineImg src="/images/report-issue.png" width="900" alt="Screenshot of the location of new issue button on GitHub" top bottom/>

The next step will show you all the possibilities for new issues. Create a new `Bug Report` or `Feature Proposal` to go next.

<InlineImg src="/images/report-issue-part-2.png" width="900" alt="Screenshot of the possibilities in creating a new issue" top/>

These will each have a prepared template you need to fill out in order to submit your issue.

## Eufemia Version

You can your Eufemia version (above v9.22.0) by typing `Eufemia.version` in your browser console.
