packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/number-format/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
redirect_from:
  - /uilib/components/number/properties
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value` or `children`                       | _(mandatory)_ a number.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `locale`                                    | _(optional)_ Use a [2 Letter Language Codes](https://www.sitepoint.com/iso-2-letter-language-codes/) or an extended code such as `nb-NO`. Use `auto` to detect the locale from the browser (`navigator.language`). Defaults to the Norwegian locale: `nb-NO`.                                 |
| `clean`                                     | _(optional)_ if set to `true` a dirty string will be parsed to to extract the number (`prefix -123.45 suffix` would result in e.g. `kr -123,45`).                                                                                                                                             |
| `currency`                                  | _(optional)_ Currency code (ISO 4217) or `true` to use the default `NOK`. Uses two decimals by default.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `currency_display`                          | _(optional)_ Use either `code` (NOK), `name` (norske kroner) , `symbol` (kr) or `narrowSymbol` (for a shorter symbol variant). Defaults to `narrowSymbol`.                                                                                                                                    |
| `currency_position`                         | _(optional)_ Use either `before` or `after` to change/define the position of the currency. Defaults to `auto` (Browser API defaults, but with exception if locale is `nb-NO` or `no`, use after as the default position).                                                                     |
| `ban`                                       | _(optional)_ **Bank Account Number**: use `true` to use the default Norwegian style (2000 12 34567) formatting.                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `nin`                                       | _(optional)_ **National Identification Number**: use `true` to use the default Norwegian style (180892 12345) formatting.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `org`                                       | _(optional)_ **Organization Number**: use `true` to use the default Norwegian style (123 456 789) formatting. Screen readers get a digit by digit.                                                                                                                                            |
| `phone`                                     | _(optional)_ use `true` to use the default Norwegian style (22 22 22 22) of phone number formatting, regulated by the [Norwegian authority](https://lovdata.no/forskrift/2004-02-16-426/§16). More info by [Sprakradet](https://www.sprakradet.no/sprakhjelp/Skriveregler/Dato/#tlf) as well. |
| `decimals`                                  | _(optional)_ set a number to define the amount of decimals. Like `decimals="0"` will ensure that decimals are simply not shown. The default decimals for currency usage, is `2` (Browser API default).                                                                                        |
| `omit_rounding`                             | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, the decimal will NOT be rounded. Normally, by using `toFixed` or by using `maximumFractionDigits`, decimals get rounded.                                                                                                                                       |
| `prefix`                                    | _(optional)_ add a string or React component before the number, including a white space.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `suffix`                                    | _(optional)_ appends a string or React component after the number, including a white space.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `selectall`                                 | _(optional)_ use `false` to disable the auto select all on first click. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `always_selectall`                          | _(optional)_ use `true` to always auto select all on first click. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `copy_selection`                            | _(optional)_ use `false` to disable the auto copy feature. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `link`                                      | _(optional)_ use `tel` or `sms` to enable a clickable / touchable anchor link.                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `element`                                   | _(optional)_ define what HTML element should be used. Defaults to `<span>`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `options`                                   | _(optional)_ accepts all [number.toLocaleString](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number/toLocaleString) options as an object - can also be a JSON given as the parameter e.g. `options='{"minimumFractionDigits":"2"}'`.                     |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

<!-- 40 00 00 00–49 99 99 99: 8-sifrede nummer for landmobile tjenester -->

Commit message:

chore(docs): add skeleton property to supported components

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/number-format/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
redirect_from:
  - /uilib/components/number/properties
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value` or `children`                       | _(mandatory)_ a number.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `locale`                                    | _(optional)_ Use a [2 Letter Language Codes](https://www.sitepoint.com/iso-2-letter-language-codes/) or an extended code such as `nb-NO`. Use `auto` to detect the locale from the browser (`navigator.language`). Defaults to the Norwegian locale: `nb-NO`.                                 |
| `clean`                                     | _(optional)_ if set to `true` a dirty string will be parsed to to extract the number (`prefix -123.45 suffix` would result in e.g. `kr -123,45`).                                                                                                                                             |
| `currency`                                  | _(optional)_ Currency code (ISO 4217) or `true` to use the default `NOK`. Uses two decimals by default.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `currency_display`                          | _(optional)_ Use either `code` (NOK), `name` (norske kroner) , `symbol` (kr) or `narrowSymbol` (for a shorter symbol variant). Defaults to `narrowSymbol`.                                                                                                                                    |
| `currency_position`                         | _(optional)_ Use either `before` or `after` to change/define the position of the currency. Defaults to `auto` (Browser API defaults, but with exception if locale is `nb-NO` or `no`, use after as the default position).                                                                     |
| `ban`                                       | _(optional)_ **Bank Account Number**: use `true` to use the default Norwegian style (2000 12 34567) formatting.                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `nin`                                       | _(optional)_ **National Identification Number**: use `true` to use the default Norwegian style (180892 12345) formatting.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `org`                                       | _(optional)_ **Organization Number**: use `true` to use the default Norwegian style (123 456 789) formatting. Screen readers get a digit by digit.                                                                                                                                            |
| `phone`                                     | _(optional)_ use `true` to use the default Norwegian style (22 22 22 22) of phone number formatting, regulated by the [Norwegian authority](https://lovdata.no/forskrift/2004-02-16-426/§16). More info by [Sprakradet](https://www.sprakradet.no/sprakhjelp/Skriveregler/Dato/#tlf) as well. |
| `decimals`                                  | _(optional)_ set a number to define the amount of decimals. Like `decimals="0"` will ensure that decimals are simply not shown. The default decimals for currency usage, is `2` (Browser API default).                                                                                        |
| `omit_rounding`                             | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, the decimal will NOT be rounded. Normally, by using `toFixed` or by using `maximumFractionDigits`, decimals get rounded.                                                                                                                                       |
| `prefix`                                    | _(optional)_ add a string or React component before the number, including a white space.                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `suffix`                                    | _(optional)_ appends a string or React component after the number, including a white space.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `selectall`                                 | _(optional)_ use `false` to disable the auto select all on first click. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `always_selectall`                          | _(optional)_ use `true` to always auto select all on first click. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `copy_selection`                            | _(optional)_ use `false` to disable the auto copy feature. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `link`                                      | _(optional)_ use `tel` or `sms` to enable a clickable / touchable anchor link.                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `element`                                   | _(optional)_ define what HTML element should be used. Defaults to `<span>`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `options`                                   | _(optional)_ accepts all [number.toLocaleString](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number/toLocaleString) options as an object - can also be a JSON given as the parameter e.g. `options='{"minimumFractionDigits":"2"}'`.                     |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, an overlaying skeleton with animation will be shown.                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

<!-- 40 00 00 00–49 99 99 99: 8-sifrede nummer for landmobile tjenester -->
