packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/usage.md, before:

---
title: 'Usage'
icon: 'usage'
order: 3
---

<!-- import ReleasesInfo from 'Docs/design-system/changelog/info-about-releases' -->

import WatchingReleases from 'Docs/uilib/info/about-watching-releases.md'

# Usage

**Get started using the DNB user interface library**

The UI Library HTML Elements and UI Components are isolated, ready-to-use elements. They are self-supporting, and will use the styles they need to display.

- **HTML Elements** are styled HTML tags
- **UI Components** are styled and custom build HTML elements
- **UI Extensions** are styled and functional, but related additions to Eufemia

You can use any of the HTML Elements and UI Components as demonstrated in the documentation with a variety of customization properties.

<WatchingReleases />

## Installation

To install and save the `@dnb/eufemia` in your **package.json** dependencies, run:

_NB!_ [React](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react) and [React-dom](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-dom) are needed as well.

```bash
# at time of writing, React version 16 was used
# so consider to run react@16 and react-dom@16
$ npm i @dnb/eufemia react react-dom
```

Read more in the [First Steps](/uilib/usage/first-steps/) section.

## Supported Browsers and Platforms

We use the following config in our browserlists(.browserslistrc): `'last 2 versions, > 0.2%, not dead'`.

To see exactly which browsers this config supports, take a look [here](https://browsersl.ist/#q=last+2+versions%2C+%3E+0.2%25%2C+not+dead).

Commit message:

Update query to output es6 code
to "defaults and supports es6-module, maintained node versions"

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/usage.md, after:

---
title: 'Usage'
icon: 'usage'
order: 3
---

<!-- import ReleasesInfo from 'Docs/design-system/changelog/info-about-releases' -->

import WatchingReleases from 'Docs/uilib/info/about-watching-releases.md'

# Usage

**Get started using the DNB user interface library**

The UI Library HTML Elements and UI Components are isolated, ready-to-use elements. They are self-supporting, and will use the styles they need to display.

- **HTML Elements** are styled HTML tags
- **UI Components** are styled and custom build HTML elements
- **UI Extensions** are styled and functional, but related additions to Eufemia

You can use any of the HTML Elements and UI Components as demonstrated in the documentation with a variety of customization properties.

<WatchingReleases />

## Installation

To install and save the `@dnb/eufemia` in your **package.json** dependencies, run:

_NB!_ [React](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react) and [React-dom](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-dom) are needed as well.

```bash
# at time of writing, React version 16 was used
# so consider to run react@16 and react-dom@16
$ npm i @dnb/eufemia react react-dom
```

Read more in the [First Steps](/uilib/usage/first-steps/) section.

## Supported Browsers and Platforms

Eufemia uses the following config for the bundle output, defined in `.browserslistrc`:

- `defaults and supports es6-module, maintained node versions`

To see exactly which browsers this config supports, take a look [here](https://browsersl.ist/#q=defaults+and+supports+es6-module%2C+maintained+node+versions).
