packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/input/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `value`                                     | _(optional)_ the content value of the input.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `align`                                     | _(optional)_ defines the text alignment of the input. Can be `left`, `right` or `center`. Defaults to `left`.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `label`                                     | _(optional)_ prepends the Form Label component. If no ID is provided, a random ID is created.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `label_direction`                           | _(optional)_ use `label_direction="vertical"` to change the label layout direction. Defaults to `horizontal`                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `label_sr_only`                             | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `status`                                    | _(optional)_ text with a status message. The style defaults to an error message. You can use `true` to only get the status color, without a message.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `status_state`                              | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently, there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `status_props`                              | _(optional)_ use an object to define additional FormStatus properties.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `global_status_id`                          | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `placeholder`                               | _(optional)_ the placeholder which shows up once the input value is empty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `icon`                                      | _(optional)_ icon to show before or after the input / placeholder. Can be either a string defining a primary icon or a Component using an SVG icon of either 16px or 24px.                                                                                                                                               |
| `icon_position`                             | _(optional)_ defines the position of icon inside the input. Set to `left` or `right`. Defaults to `left` if not set.                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `icon_size`                                 | _(optional)_ the icon size of the icon shows. Defaults to `medium`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `keep_placeholder`                          | _(optional)_ set to `true` in case the `placeholder` has to be kept during focus. By default, the placeholder disappears on focus.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `input_class`                               | _(optional)_ in case we have to set a custom input class.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `type`                                      | _(optional)_ choose between `text`, `number`, `email`, `password`, `url`, `tel` and `search`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `autocomplete`                              | _(optional)_ defaults to `off`. Set to `on` or any of [allowed `attributes`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#attr-autocomplete). Keep in mind, 1. you may have to define a `name`, 2. have the input as a descendant of a `<form>` element, 3. and have a submit button inside the form. |
| `submit_button_title`                       | _(optional)_ title attribute for the search icon. Only relevant if search input.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `suffix`                                    | _(optional)_ text describing the content of the input more than the label. You can also send in a React component, so it gets wrapped inside the Input component.                                                                                                                                                        |
| `size`                                      | _(optional)_ the sizes you can choose is `small` (1.5rem), `default` (2rem), `medium` (2.5rem) and `large` (3rem) are supported component sizes. Defaults to `default` / `null`. Also, if You define a number like `size="2"` then it will be forwarded as the input element attribute.                                  |
| `selectall`                                 | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the whole input value gets selected on the entry focus. A second click will place the cursor on the wanted position.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `clear`                                     | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then a clear button will be shown which lets the user clear any given input value.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `stretch`                                   | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the input field will be 100% in `width`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, an overlaying skeleton with animation will be shown.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `input_attributes`                          | _(optional)_ provide the Input element with any attributes by using an Object `input_attributes={{size:'2'}}` or a JSON Object `input_attributes='{"size":"2"}'`. **NB:** Keep in mind, that also every not listed component property will be sent along and set as an Input element attribute.                          |
| `input_state`                               | _(optional)_ defines a custom visual state of the input. Use it only if you have to simulate a custom state. Currently are three statuses `virgin` , `focus` and `dirty`. Defaults to `null`.                                                                                                                            |
| `submit_element`                            | _(optional)_ accepts a React element which will show up like the "submit button" would do on `type="search"`.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `inner_ref`                                 | _(optional)_ by providing a React.ref we can get the internally used input element (DOM). E.g. `inner_ref={myRef}` by using `React.createRef()` or `React.useRef()`.                                                                                                                                                     |
| `input_element`                             | _(internal)_ by providing a new component we can change the internally used element. Also supports a string only, like `input_element="input"`.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Commit message:

feat(Input): add inner_element property for internal usage (as of now)

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/input/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `value`                                     | _(optional)_ the content value of the input.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `align`                                     | _(optional)_ defines the text alignment of the input. Can be `left`, `right` or `center`. Defaults to `left`.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `label`                                     | _(optional)_ prepends the Form Label component. If no ID is provided, a random ID is created.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `label_direction`                           | _(optional)_ use `label_direction="vertical"` to change the label layout direction. Defaults to `horizontal`                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `label_sr_only`                             | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `status`                                    | _(optional)_ text with a status message. The style defaults to an error message. You can use `true` to only get the status color, without a message.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `status_state`                              | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently, there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `status_props`                              | _(optional)_ use an object to define additional FormStatus properties.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `global_status_id`                          | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `placeholder`                               | _(optional)_ the placeholder which shows up once the input value is empty                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `icon`                                      | _(optional)_ icon to show before or after the input / placeholder. Can be either a string defining a primary icon or a Component using an SVG icon of either 16px or 24px.                                                                                                                                               |
| `icon_position`                             | _(optional)_ defines the position of icon inside the input. Set to `left` or `right`. Defaults to `left` if not set.                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `icon_size`                                 | _(optional)_ the icon size of the icon shows. Defaults to `medium`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `keep_placeholder`                          | _(optional)_ set to `true` in case the `placeholder` has to be kept during focus. By default, the placeholder disappears on focus.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `input_class`                               | _(optional)_ in case we have to set a custom input class.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `type`                                      | _(optional)_ choose between `text`, `number`, `email`, `password`, `url`, `tel` and `search`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `autocomplete`                              | _(optional)_ defaults to `off`. Set to `on` or any of [allowed `attributes`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input#attr-autocomplete). Keep in mind, 1. you may have to define a `name`, 2. have the input as a descendant of a `<form>` element, 3. and have a submit button inside the form. |
| `submit_button_title`                       | _(optional)_ title attribute for the search icon. Only relevant if search input.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `suffix`                                    | _(optional)_ text describing the content of the input more than the label. You can also send in a React component, so it gets wrapped inside the Input component.                                                                                                                                                        |
| `size`                                      | _(optional)_ the sizes you can choose is `small` (1.5rem), `default` (2rem), `medium` (2.5rem) and `large` (3rem) are supported component sizes. Defaults to `default` / `null`. Also, if You define a number like `size="2"` then it will be forwarded as the input element attribute.                                  |
| `selectall`                                 | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the whole input value gets selected on the entry focus. A second click will place the cursor on the wanted position.                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `clear`                                     | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then a clear button will be shown which lets the user clear any given input value.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `stretch`                                   | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the input field will be 100% in `width`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, an overlaying skeleton with animation will be shown.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `input_attributes`                          | _(optional)_ provide the Input element with any attributes by using an Object `input_attributes={{size:'2'}}` or a JSON Object `input_attributes='{"size":"2"}'`. **NB:** Keep in mind, that also every not listed component property will be sent along and set as an Input element attribute.                          |
| `input_state`                               | _(optional)_ defines a custom visual state of the input. Use it only if you have to simulate a custom state. Currently are three statuses `virgin` , `focus` and `dirty`. Defaults to `null`.                                                                                                                            |
| `submit_element`                            | _(optional)_ accepts a React element which will show up like the "submit button" would do on `type="search"`.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `inner_ref`                                 | _(optional)_ by providing a React.ref we can get the internally used input element (DOM). E.g. `inner_ref={myRef}` by using `React.createRef()` or `React.useRef()`.                                                                                                                                                     |
| `input_element`                             | _(internal)_ by providing a new component we can change the internally used element. Also supports a string only, like `input_element="input"`.                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `inner_element`                             | _(internal)_ by providing a new component to be rendered inside the "shell" – we can add a freely customizable internal element. Used by the Autocomplete component.                                                                                                                                                     |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
