packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/logo/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `size`                                      | _(optional)_ define the size of the logo. Sets the height. The width will be calculated by the ratio. Also, `inherit` will use the inherited height. Defaults to `auto` |
| `color`                                     | _(optional)_ define the color of the logo                                                                                                                               |
| `width`                                     | _(optional)_ define either the width of the logo                                                                                                                        |
| `height`                                    | _(optional)_ or define the height of the logo                                                                                                                           |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                   |

Commit message:

feat(Logo): add inherit_color prop (#1578)

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/logo/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `size`                                      | _(optional)_ define the size of the logo. Sets the height. The width will be calculated by the ratio. Also, `inherit` will use the inherited height. Defaults to `auto` |
| `color`                                     | _(optional)_ define the color of the logo                                                                                                                               |
| `inherit_color`                             | _(optional)_ set to `true` if you do not want to inherit the color by `currentColor`. Default to `false`.                                                               |
| `width`                                     | _(optional)_ define either the width of the logo                                                                                                                        |
| `height`                                    | _(optional)_ or define the height of the logo                                                                                                                           |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                   |
