packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/progress-indicator/demos.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
redirect_from:
  - /uilib/components/progress/demos
---

import {
ProgressIndicatorDefault,
ProgressIndicatorCircular,
ProgressIndicatorCircularHorizontal,
ProgressIndicatorCircularVertical,
ProgressIndicatorCircularProgress,
ProgressIndicatorCircularRandom,
ProgressIndicatorCircularTransition,
ProgressIndicatorCircularCallback,
ProgressIndicatorCircularModal,
ProgressIndicatorLinear,
ProgressIndicatorLinearSmall,
ProgressIndicatorLinearHorizontal,
ProgressIndicatorLinearVertical,
ProgressIndicatorLinearStatic,
ProgressIndicatorLinearRandom,
ProgressIndicatorLinearTransition,
ProgressIndicatorLinearCallback,
ProgressIndicatorLinearModal,
ProgressIndicatorSizes
} from 'Docs/uilib/components/progress-indicator/Examples'

## Demos

### Default ProgressIndicator is Circular

<ProgressIndicatorDefault />

### Default Circular ProgressIndicator

<ProgressIndicatorCircular />

### Circular ProgressIndicator with a label in a horizontal direction

<ProgressIndicatorCircularHorizontal />

### Circular ProgressIndicator with a label in a vertical direction

<ProgressIndicatorCircularVertical />

### Shows a large Circular ProgressIndicator with a static 50% in progress

<ProgressIndicatorCircularProgress />

### Circular ProgressIndicator with random value

<ProgressIndicatorCircularRandom />

### Circular ProgressIndicator with random progress value to show the transition

<ProgressIndicatorCircularTransition />

### Circular ProgressIndicator with random `on_complete` callback

<ProgressIndicatorCircularCallback />

### Circular ProgressIndicator inside a Modal

<ProgressIndicatorCircularModal />

### Default Linear ProgressIndicator

<ProgressIndicatorLinear />

### Small Linear ProgressIndicator

<ProgressIndicatorLinearSmall />

### Linear ProgressIndicator with a label in a horizontal direction

<ProgressIndicatorLinearHorizontal />

### Linear ProgressIndicator with a label in a vertical direction

<ProgressIndicatorLinearVertical />

### Shows a large Linear ProgressIndicator with a static 50% in progress

<ProgressIndicatorLinearStatic />

### Linear ProgressIndicator with random value

<ProgressIndicatorLinearRandom />

### Linear ProgressIndicator with random progress value to show the transition

<ProgressIndicatorLinearTransition />

### Linear ProgressIndicator with random `on_complete` callback

<ProgressIndicatorLinearCallback />

### Linear ProgressIndicator inside a Modal

<ProgressIndicatorLinearModal />

<ProgressIndicatorSizes />

Commit message:

feat(ProgressIndicator): add submit type

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/progress-indicator/demos.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
redirect_from:
  - /uilib/components/progress/demos
---

import {
ProgressIndicatorSubmit,
ProgressIndicatorCircular,
ProgressIndicatorCircularHorizontal,
ProgressIndicatorCircularVertical,
ProgressIndicatorCircularProgress,
ProgressIndicatorCircularRandom,
ProgressIndicatorCircularTransition,
ProgressIndicatorCircularCallback,
ProgressIndicatorCircularModal,
ProgressIndicatorLinear,
ProgressIndicatorLinearSmall,
ProgressIndicatorLinearHorizontal,
ProgressIndicatorLinearVertical,
ProgressIndicatorLinearStatic,
ProgressIndicatorLinearRandom,
ProgressIndicatorLinearTransition,
ProgressIndicatorLinearCallback,
ProgressIndicatorLinearModal,
ProgressIndicatorSizes
} from 'Docs/uilib/components/progress-indicator/Examples'

## Demos

### Default ProgressIndicator is Circular

Use this indicator in forms, side by side a submit button. Its a light weight and dense way to tell the user whats happening at the moment.

<ProgressIndicatorSubmit />

### Default Circular ProgressIndicator

<ProgressIndicatorCircular />

### Circular ProgressIndicator with a label in a horizontal direction

<ProgressIndicatorCircularHorizontal />

### Circular ProgressIndicator with a label in a vertical direction

<ProgressIndicatorCircularVertical />

### Shows a large Circular ProgressIndicator with a static 50% in progress

<ProgressIndicatorCircularProgress />

### Circular ProgressIndicator with random value

<ProgressIndicatorCircularRandom />

### Circular ProgressIndicator with random progress value to show the transition

<ProgressIndicatorCircularTransition />

### Circular ProgressIndicator with random `on_complete` callback

<ProgressIndicatorCircularCallback />

### Circular ProgressIndicator inside a Modal

<ProgressIndicatorCircularModal />

### Default Linear ProgressIndicator

<ProgressIndicatorLinear />

### Small Linear ProgressIndicator

<ProgressIndicatorLinearSmall />

### Linear ProgressIndicator with a label in a horizontal direction

<ProgressIndicatorLinearHorizontal />

### Linear ProgressIndicator with a label in a vertical direction

<ProgressIndicatorLinearVertical />

### Shows a large Linear ProgressIndicator with a static 50% in progress

<ProgressIndicatorLinearStatic />

### Linear ProgressIndicator with random value

<ProgressIndicatorLinearRandom />

### Linear ProgressIndicator with random progress value to show the transition

<ProgressIndicatorLinearTransition />

### Linear ProgressIndicator with random `on_complete` callback

<ProgressIndicatorLinearCallback />

### Linear ProgressIndicator inside a Modal

<ProgressIndicatorLinearModal />

<ProgressIndicatorSizes />
