packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/form-row/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `label`                                     | _(optional)_ use either the `label` property or provide custom one.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `label_direction`                           | _(optional)_ use `label_direction="vertical"` to change the label/legend layout direction. Defaults to `horizontal`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `label_sr_only`                             | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `direction`                                 | _(optional)_ to define the layout direction on how the next component should be placed on. Can be either `vertical` or `horizontal`. Defaults to `horizontal`.                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `vertical`                                  | _(optional)_ will force both `direction` and `label_direction` to be **vertical** if set to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `centered`                                  | _(optional)_ will center all children vertically as long as the screen not hits a mobile width.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `indent`                                    | _(optional)_ indents the FormRow legend if the `direction` is `horizontal`. ~~Use `small`, `medium` and `large`~~. Defaults to `false`. If set to `true`, then `medium` is used.                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `indent_offset`                             | _(optional)_ in case the `direction` is `horizontal` and there is a label/legend, the content of the FormRow has to be moved up to be at the label/legend position. Depending on the components used inside, it has to be moved up based on the height. Sizes available: `xsmall`, `small`, `medium`, `m-large` (2.5rem), `x-large` and `xx-large` . Defaults to `medium`. |
| `wrap`                                      | _(optional)_ forces the content of a FormRow to wrap. Make sure You always define spacing as `right="..."` and not `left`, this way components will align left once they wrap. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `responsive`                                | _(optional)_ to force responsiveness on form components (like [Input](/uilib/components/input) and their labels ([FormLabel](/uilib/components/form-label)), set the prop to `true`. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `section_style`                             | _(optional)_ to enable the visual helper `.dnb-section` class. Use a supported modifier from the [Section component](/uilib/components/section/properties). Defaults to null.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `section_spacing`                           | _(optional)_ to modify the `spacing`. Use a supported modifier from the [Section component](/uilib/components/section/properties). Defaults to null.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `no_fieldset`                               | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the internal `legend` element will be a `label` instead, and no `<fieldset>` is used. Keep in mind, that `<legend>` and `<fieldset>` **is only used if a `label` is provided**. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                   |
| `label_class`                               | _(optional)_ if You need to style the "legend", then You can either send in a custom Component, like `label={ <H2> }`, or define Your styling class with the `label_class` property.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

Commit message:

chore(docs): add skeleton property to supported components

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/form-row/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `label`                                     | _(optional)_ use either the `label` property or provide custom one.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `label_direction`                           | _(optional)_ use `label_direction="vertical"` to change the label/legend layout direction. Defaults to `horizontal`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `label_sr_only`                             | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `direction`                                 | _(optional)_ to define the layout direction on how the next component should be placed on. Can be either `vertical` or `horizontal`. Defaults to `horizontal`.                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `vertical`                                  | _(optional)_ will force both `direction` and `label_direction` to be **vertical** if set to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `centered`                                  | _(optional)_ will center all children vertically as long as the screen not hits a mobile width.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `indent`                                    | _(optional)_ indents the FormRow legend if the `direction` is `horizontal`. ~~Use `small`, `medium` and `large`~~. Defaults to `false`. If set to `true`, then `medium` is used.                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `indent_offset`                             | _(optional)_ in case the `direction` is `horizontal` and there is a label/legend, the content of the FormRow has to be moved up to be at the label/legend position. Depending on the components used inside, it has to be moved up based on the height. Sizes available: `xsmall`, `small`, `medium`, `m-large` (2.5rem), `x-large` and `xx-large` . Defaults to `medium`. |
| `wrap`                                      | _(optional)_ forces the content of a FormRow to wrap. Make sure You always define spacing as `right="..."` and not `left`, this way components will align left once they wrap. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `responsive`                                | _(optional)_ to force responsiveness on form components (like [Input](/uilib/components/input) and their labels ([FormLabel](/uilib/components/form-label)), set the prop to `true`. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `section_style`                             | _(optional)_ to enable the visual helper `.dnb-section` class. Use a supported modifier from the [Section component](/uilib/components/section/properties). Defaults to null.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `section_spacing`                           | _(optional)_ to modify the `spacing`. Use a supported modifier from the [Section component](/uilib/components/section/properties). Defaults to null.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `no_fieldset`                               | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the internal `legend` element will be a `label` instead, and no `<fieldset>` is used. Keep in mind, that `<legend>` and `<fieldset>` **is only used if a `label` is provided**. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                   |
| `label_class`                               | _(optional)_ if You need to style the "legend", then You can either send in a custom Component, like `label={ <H2> }`, or define Your styling class with the `label_class` property.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `disabled`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, every component inside will be disabled. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, it enables skeleton for nested components. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
