packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/textarea/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value`                                     | _(optional)_ the content value of the Textarea.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `align`                                     | _(optional)_ defines the `text-align` of the Textarea. Defaults to `left`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `stretch`                                   | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the Textarea field will be 100% in `width`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `placeholder`                               | _(optional)_ the placeholder which shows up once the Textarea value is empty                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `label`                                     | _(optional)_ prepends the Form Label component. If no ID is provided, a random ID is created.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `label_direction`                           | _(optional)_ use `label_direction="vertical"` to change the label layout direction. Defaults to `horizontal`                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `suffix`                                    | _(optional)_ text describing the content of the Textarea more than the label. You can also send in a React component, so it gets wrapped inside the Textarea component.                                                                                                                                    |
| `label_sr_only`                             | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `autoresize`                                | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the Textarea grow and shrink depending on how many lines the user has filled.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `autoresize_max_rows`                       | _(optional)_ set a number to define how many rows the Textarea can auto grow.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `status`                                    | _(optional)_ text with a status message. The style defaults to an error message. You can use `true` to only get the status color, without a message.                                                                                                                                                       |
| `status_state`                              | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `global_status_id`                          | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `textarea_state`                            | _(optional)_ to control the visual focus state as a prop, like `focus` or `blur`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `textarea_class`                            | _(optional)_ in case we have to set a custom Textarea class.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `textarea_attributes`                       | _(optional)_ provide the Textarea element with any attributes by using an Object `textarea_attributes={{size:'2'}}` or a JSON Object `textarea_attributes='{"size":"2"}'`. **NB:** Keep in mind, that also every not listed component property will be send along and set as a Textarea element attribute. |
| `inner_ref`                                 | _(optional)_ by providing a React.ref we can get the internal used Textarea element (DOM). E.g. `inner_ref={myRef}` by using `React.createRef()` or `React.useRef()`.                                                                                                                                      |
| [Skeleton](/uilib/components/skeleton)      | _(optional)_ show a Skeleton by set the property to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

### Set Textarea height

You can set the height of a Textarea by both CSS styles or the `rows` attribute.

Commit message:

chore(docs): add skeleton property to supported components

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/textarea/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value`                                     | _(optional)_ the content value of the Textarea.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `align`                                     | _(optional)_ defines the `text-align` of the Textarea. Defaults to `left`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `stretch`                                   | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the Textarea field will be 100% in `width`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `placeholder`                               | _(optional)_ the placeholder which shows up once the Textarea value is empty                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `label`                                     | _(optional)_ prepends the Form Label component. If no ID is provided, a random ID is created.                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `label_direction`                           | _(optional)_ use `label_direction="vertical"` to change the label layout direction. Defaults to `horizontal`                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `suffix`                                    | _(optional)_ text describing the content of the Textarea more than the label. You can also send in a React component, so it gets wrapped inside the Textarea component.                                                                                                                                    |
| `label_sr_only`                             | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `autoresize`                                | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the Textarea grow and shrink depending on how many lines the user has filled.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `autoresize_max_rows`                       | _(optional)_ set a number to define how many rows the Textarea can auto grow.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `status`                                    | _(optional)_ text with a status message. The style defaults to an error message. You can use `true` to only get the status color, without a message.                                                                                                                                                       |
| `status_state`                              | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `global_status_id`                          | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `textarea_state`                            | _(optional)_ to control the visual focus state as a prop, like `focus` or `blur`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `textarea_class`                            | _(optional)_ in case we have to set a custom Textarea class.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `textarea_attributes`                       | _(optional)_ provide the Textarea element with any attributes by using an Object `textarea_attributes={{size:'2'}}` or a JSON Object `textarea_attributes='{"size":"2"}'`. **NB:** Keep in mind, that also every not listed component property will be send along and set as a Textarea element attribute. |
| `inner_ref`                                 | _(optional)_ by providing a React.ref we can get the internal used Textarea element (DOM). E.g. `inner_ref={myRef}` by using `React.createRef()` or `React.useRef()`.                                                                                                                                      |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, an overlaying skeleton with animation will be shown.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

### Set Textarea height

You can set the height of a Textarea by both CSS styles or the `rows` attribute.
