packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/typography/line-height.md, before:

---
title: 'Line Height'
order: 3
---

# Line Height

For details about what values Typographic elements do use, have a loot at the [Fonts & Typography](/quickguide-designer/fonts#typographic-elements) documentation.

## Default `line-height` **rem** table

| Pixel | Type      | Rem          | Custom Property         |
| ----- | --------- | ------------ | ----------------------- |
| 18px  | `x-small` | **1.125rem** | `--line-height-x-small` |
| 20px  | `small`   | **1.25rem**  | `--line-height-small`   |
| 24px  | `basis`   | **1.5rem**   | `--line-height-basis`   |
| 32px  | `medium`  | **2rem**     | `--line-height-medium`  |
| 40px  | `large`   | **2.5rem**   | `--line-height-large`   |
| 56px  | `x-large` | **3.5rem**   | `--line-height-x-large` |

<!-- - Used for `<h5>` and `<h6>`, who are not a part of the design system. -->

## Additional `line-height` **em** table

| Pixel | Type           | Em          | Custom Property              | Info   |
| ----- | -------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------- | ------ |
| 16px  | `xx-small--em` | **1em**     | `--line-height-xx-small--em` |        |
| 24px  | `basis--em`    | **1.333em** | `--line-height-basis--em`    | **\*** |

**\*** If we sum 1.33333333333\*18 we get 24. Browsers do round CSS values, so we do not need all the decimal numbers for now.

### How to use the line heights (CSS)

```css
/* I have a default height */
.dnb-p {
  line-height: var(--line-height-basis); /* 1.5rem = 24px */
}
```

Commit message:

docs: add VSCode Extension to docs

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/typography/line-height.md, after:

---
title: 'Line Height'
order: 3
---

# Line Height

For details about what values Typographic elements do use, have a loot at the [Fonts & Typography](/quickguide-designer/fonts#typographic-elements) documentation.

## Default `line-height` **rem** table

| Pixel | Type      | Rem          | Custom Property         |
| ----- | --------- | ------------ | ----------------------- |
| 18px  | `x-small` | **1.125rem** | `--line-height-x-small` |
| 20px  | `small`   | **1.25rem**  | `--line-height-small`   |
| 24px  | `basis`   | **1.5rem**   | `--line-height-basis`   |
| 32px  | `medium`  | **2rem**     | `--line-height-medium`  |
| 40px  | `large`   | **2.5rem**   | `--line-height-large`   |
| 56px  | `x-large` | **3.5rem**   | `--line-height-x-large` |

<!-- - Used for `<h5>` and `<h6>`, who are not a part of the design system. -->

### Code Editor Extensions

You may be interested to install an [Eufemia code editor extension](/uilib/helpers/tools/#code-editor-extensions) that allows you to quickly auto complete the correct `line-height`.

## Additional `line-height` **em** table

| Pixel | Type           | Em          | Custom Property              | Info   |
| ----- | -------------- | ----------- | ---------------------------- | ------ |
| 16px  | `xx-small--em` | **1em**     | `--line-height-xx-small--em` |        |
| 24px  | `basis--em`    | **1.333em** | `--line-height-basis--em`    | **\*** |

**\*** If we sum 1.33333333333\*18 we get 24. Browsers do round CSS values, so we do not need all the decimal numbers for now.

### How to use the line heights (CSS)

```css
/* I have a default height */
.dnb-p {
  line-height: var(--line-height-basis); /* 1.5rem = 24px */
}
```
