packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/slider/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `value`                                     | _(mandatory)_ the `value` of the slider. Also the event callback result.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `min`                                       | _(optional)_ the minimum value. Defaults to `0`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `max`                                       | _(optional)_ the maximum value. Defaults to `100`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `step`                                      | _(optional)_ the steps the slider takes on changing the value. Defaults to `null`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `vertical`                                  | _(optional)_ show the slider vertically. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `reverse`                                   | _(optional)_ show the slider reversed. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `stretch`                                   | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the slider will be 100% in `width`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `hide_buttons`                              | _(optional)_ removes the helper buttons. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `use_scrollwheel`                           | _(optional)_ enable mouse scroll-wheel support. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `thump_title`                               | _(optional)_ give the slider thump button a title for accessibility reason. Defaults to `null`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `subtract_title`                            | _(optional)_ give the subtract button a title for accessibility reason. Defaults to `−`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `add_title`                                 | _(optional)_ give the add button a title for accessibility reason. Defaults to `+`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `number_format`                             | _(optional)_ Will extend the return object with a `number` property (from `on_change` event). You can use all the options from the [NumberFormat](/uilib/components/number-format/properties) component. It also will use that formatted number in the increase/decrease buttons. If it has to represent a currency, then use e.g. `number_format={{ currency: true, decimals: 0 }}` |
| `label`                                     | _(optional)_ prepends the Form Label component. If no ID is provided, a random ID is created.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `label_direction`                           | _(optional)_ use `label_direction="vertical"` to change the label layout direction. Defaults to `horizontal`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `label_sr_only`                             | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `status`                                    | _(optional)_ text with a status message. The style defaults to an error message. You can use `true` to only get the status color, without a message.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `status_state`                              | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `global_status_id`                          | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `suffix`                                    | _(optional)_ text describing the content of the Slider more than the label. You can also send in a React component, so it gets wrapped inside the Slider component.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, an overlaying skeleton with animation will be shown.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

Commit message:

fix: add property `status_props` to overwrite form-status properties from every component (#961)
* fix: add property `status_props` to overwrite form-status properties from every component

* chore: update snapshots

* chore: add test

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/slider/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `value`                                     | _(mandatory)_ the `value` of the slider. Also the event callback result.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `min`                                       | _(optional)_ the minimum value. Defaults to `0`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `max`                                       | _(optional)_ the maximum value. Defaults to `100`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `step`                                      | _(optional)_ the steps the slider takes on changing the value. Defaults to `null`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `vertical`                                  | _(optional)_ show the slider vertically. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `reverse`                                   | _(optional)_ show the slider reversed. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `stretch`                                   | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the slider will be 100% in `width`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `hide_buttons`                              | _(optional)_ removes the helper buttons. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `use_scrollwheel`                           | _(optional)_ enable mouse scroll-wheel support. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `thump_title`                               | _(optional)_ give the slider thump button a title for accessibility reason. Defaults to `null`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `subtract_title`                            | _(optional)_ give the subtract button a title for accessibility reason. Defaults to `−`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `add_title`                                 | _(optional)_ give the add button a title for accessibility reason. Defaults to `+`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `number_format`                             | _(optional)_ Will extend the return object with a `number` property (from `on_change` event). You can use all the options from the [NumberFormat](/uilib/components/number-format/properties) component. It also will use that formatted number in the increase/decrease buttons. If it has to represent a currency, then use e.g. `number_format={{ currency: true, decimals: 0 }}` |
| `label`                                     | _(optional)_ prepends the Form Label component. If no ID is provided, a random ID is created.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `label_direction`                           | _(optional)_ use `label_direction="vertical"` to change the label layout direction. Defaults to `horizontal`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `label_sr_only`                             | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `status`                                    | _(optional)_ text with a status message. The style defaults to an error message. You can use `true` to only get the status color, without a message.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `status_state`                              | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `status_props`                              | _(optional)_ use an object to define additional FormStatus properties.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `global_status_id`                          | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `suffix`                                    | _(optional)_ text describing the content of the Slider more than the label. You can also send in a React component, so it gets wrapped inside the Slider component.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, an overlaying skeleton with animation will be shown.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
