packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/upload/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `acceptedFileTypes`                         | _(required)_ List of accepted file types.                                            |
| `fileMaxSize`                               | _(optional)_ fileMaxSize is max size of each file in MB.                             |
| `multipleFiles`                             | _(optional)_ if set true, accepting multiple files is allowed.                       |
| `title`                                     | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default title.                       |
| `text`                                      | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default text.                        |
| `fileTypeDescription`                       | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default accepted format description. |
| `fileSizeDescription`                       | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default max file size description.   |
| `fileSizeContent`                           | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default file size content.           |
| `buttonText`                                | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default upload button text.          |
| `loadingText`                               | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default loading text.                |
| `errorLargeFile`                            | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default file size error message.     |
| `errorUnsupportedFile`                      | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default file type error message.     |
| `deleteButton`                              | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default delete button text.          |
| `fileListAriaLabel`                         | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default list aria label.             |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ Skeleton should be applied when loading content Default: `null`.        |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ Spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                |

Commit message:

chore(Upload): default to multiple files by changing prop from multiøleFiles to singleFile

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/upload/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `acceptedFileTypes`                         | _(required)_ List of accepted file types.                                            |
| `singleFile`                                | _(optional)_ If set `true`, only one file will be accepted.                          |
| `fileMaxSize`                               | _(optional)_ `fileMaxSize` is max size of each file in MB.                           |
| `title`                                     | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default title.                       |
| `text`                                      | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default text.                        |
| `fileTypeDescription`                       | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default accepted format description. |
| `fileSizeDescription`                       | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default max file size description.   |
| `fileSizeContent`                           | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default file size content.           |
| `buttonText`                                | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default upload button text.          |
| `loadingText`                               | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default loading text.                |
| `errorLargeFile`                            | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default file size error message.     |
| `errorUnsupportedFile`                      | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default file type error message.     |
| `deleteButton`                              | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default delete button text.          |
| `fileListAriaLabel`                         | _(optional)_ Custom text property. Replaces the default list aria label.             |
| `skeleton`                                  | _(optional)_ Skeleton should be applied when loading content Default: `null`.        |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ Spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                |
