packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/date-picker/events.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Events

| Events      | Description                                                                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `on_change` | _(optional)_ will be called on a date change event. Returns an `object`. See above. |
| `on_submit` | _(optional)_ will be called once a user presses the submit button.                  |
| `on_cancel` | _(optional)_ will be called once a user presses the cancel button.                  |
| `on_reset`  | _(optional)_ will be called once a user presses the reset button.                   |
| `on_show`   | _(optional)_ will be called once date-picker is visible.                            |
| `on_hide`   | _(optional)_ will be called once date-picker is hidden.                             |

## Returned Object

The type of native event will depend on the interaction.
All additional HTML attributes will be returned as well.

```js
{
  date: null|"return_format", /* Gets returned if range is true */
  start_date: null|"return_format",
  end_date: null|"return_format",
  days_between: number,
  attributes: { attributes },
  event: null|{ native event }
}
```

### Min & Max date

If `min_date` or `max_date` is given, the return object also contains info about if the `start_date` or `end_date` is valid. The reason is because the user can still enter an invalid date in the input.

```js
{
  is_valid_start_date: boolean,
  is_valid_end_date: boolean,
  ...
}
```

Commit message:

feat: enhance #date-picker with `on_type` event

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/date-picker/events.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Events

| Events      | Description                                                                                             |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `on_change` | _(optional)_ will be called on a date change event. Returns an `object`. See above.                     |
| `on_type`   | _(optional)_ will be called on every input and date picker interaction. Returns an `object`. See above. |
| `on_submit` | _(optional)_ will be called once a user presses the submit button.                                      |
| `on_cancel` | _(optional)_ will be called once a user presses the cancel button.                                      |
| `on_reset`  | _(optional)_ will be called once a user presses the reset button.                                       |
| `on_show`   | _(optional)_ will be called once date-picker is visible.                                                |
| `on_hide`   | _(optional)_ will be called once date-picker is hidden.                                                 |

## Returned Object

The type of native event will depend on the interaction.
All additional HTML attributes will be returned as well.

```js
{
  date: null|'like return_format', /* Gets returned if range is false */
  start_date: null|'like return_format',
  end_date: null|'like return_format',
  days_between: number,
  attributes: { attributes },
  event: null|{ native event }
}
```

### Validation during input changes

In order to validate dates during typing, you can make use of `is_valid` or `is_valid_start_date` and `is_valid_end_date`. Because the user can change a date in the input field, and the `on_type` event will then return a falsy `is_valid`.

Additional event return object properties:

```js
{
  is_valid: boolean, /* Gets returned if range is false */
  is_valid_start_date: boolean,
  is_valid_end_date: boolean,
  ...
}
```

### Min & Max date

If `min_date` or `max_date` is given, the return object also contains info about if the `start_date` or `end_date` is in between the given limitation. The reason is because the user can still enter an invalid date in the input.

```js
{
  is_valid_start_date: boolean,
  is_valid_end_date: boolean,
  ...
}
```
