packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/date-picker/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `date`                                      | _(optional)_ defines the pre filled date by either a JavaScript DateInstance or (ISO 8601) like `date="2019-05-05"`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `start_date`                                | _(optional)_ to set the pre filled starting date. Is used if `range={true}` is set to true. Defaults to null, showing the `mask_placeholder`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `end_date`                                  | _(optional)_ to set the pre filled ending date. Is used if `range={true}` is set to true. Defaults to null, showing the `mask_placeholder`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `month`                                     | _(optional)_ to display what month should be shows in the first calendar by default. Defaults to the `date` respective `start_date`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `start_month`                               | _(optional)_ to display what month should be shows in the first calendar by default. Defaults to the `date` respective `start_date`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `end_month`                                 | _(optional)_ to display what month should be shows in the second calendar by default. Defaults to the `date` respective `start_date`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `min_date`                                  | _(optional)_ to limit a date range to a minimum `start_date`. Defaults to null.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `max_date`                                  | _(optional)_ to limit a date range to a maximum `end_date`. Defaults to null.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `date_format`                               | _(optional)_ Defines how the prop dates (`date`, `start_date` and `end_date`) should be parsed, e.g. `yyyy/MM/dd`. Defaults to `yyyy-MM-dd`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `return_format`                             | _(optional)_ Defines how the returned date, as a string, should be formatted as. Defaults to `yyyy-MM-dd`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `range`                                     | _(optional)_ if the date picker should support a range of two dates (starting and ending date). Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `show_input`                                | _(optional)_ if the input fields with the mask should be visible. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `mask_order`                                | _(optional)_ to define the order of the masked placeholder input fields. Defaults to `dd/mm/yyyy`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `opened`                                    | _(optional)_ to open the date-picker by default. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `mask_placeholder`                          | _(optional)_ to display the placeholder on input. Defaults to `dd/mm/åååå`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `hide_navigation`                           | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, the navigation will be hidden. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `hide_days`                                 | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, the week days will be hidden. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `show_submit_button`                        | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, a submit button will be shown. You can change the default text by using `submit_button_text="Ok"`. Defaults to `false`. If the `range` prop is `true`, then the submit button is show by.                                                                                                                                                             |
| `show_cancel_button`                        | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, a cancel button will be shown. You can change the default text by using `cancel_button_text="Avbryt"` Defaults to `false`. If the `range` prop is `true`, then the cancel button is show by.                                                                                                                                                          |
| `show_reset_button`                         | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, a reset button will be shown. You can change the default text by using `reset_button_text="Tilbakestill"` Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `link`                                      | _(optional)_ link both calendars, once to user is navigating between months. Only meant to use if range is set to ture. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `sync`                                      | _(optional)_ sync input values with the calendars views. Once the input values getting changed, the calendar changes its views in sync. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `first_day`                                 | _(optional)_ to define the first day of the week. Defaults to `monday`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `locale`                                    | _(optional)_ to define the locale used in the calendar. Needs to be an `date-fns` **v2** locale object, like `import enLocale from 'date-fns/locale/en-GB'`. Defaults to `nb-NO`.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `align_picker`                              | _(optional)_ use `right` to change the calendar alignment direction. Defaults to `left`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `only_month`                                | _(optional)_ use `true` to only show the defined month. Disables the month navigation possibility. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `hide_last_week`                            | _(optional)_ use `true` to only show the last week in the current month, if it needs to be shows. The result is that there will mainly be shows five (5) weeks (rows) instead of six (6). Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `label`                                     | _(optional)_ a prepending label in sync with the date input field.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `label_direction`                           | _(optional)_ use `label_direction="vertical"` to change the label layout direction. Defaults to `horizontal`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `suffix`                                    | _(optional)_ text describing the content of the DatePicker more than the label. You can also send in a React component, so it gets wrapped inside the DatePicker component.                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `label_sr_only`                             | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `shortcuts`                                 | _(optional)_ gives you the possibility to set predefined dates and date ranges so the user can select these by one click. Define either a JSON or an object with the defined shortcuts. More info below.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `addon_element`                             | _(optional)_ gives you the possibility to inject a React element showing up over the footer. Use it to customize `shortcuts`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `input_element`                             | _(optional)_ gives you the possibility to use a plain/vanilla `<input />` HTML element by defining it as a string `input_element="input"`, a React element, or a render function `input_element={(internalProps) => (<Return />)}`. Can also be used in circumstances where the `react-text-mask` not should be used, e.g. in testing environments. Defaults to custom masked input. |
| `status`                                    | _(optional)_ text with a status message. The style defaults to an error message. You can use `true` to only get the status color, without a message.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `status_state`                              | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `disable_autofocus`                         | _(optional)_ once the date picker gets opened, there is a focus handling to ensure good accessibility. This can be disabled with this property. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `global_status_id`                          | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

<!-- | `enable_keyboard_nav`                       | _(optional)_ Enables easy keyboard navigation inside the calendar dates. **NB!** this feature suppresses Screen Reader navigation on NVDA since we then uses the arrow keys to navigate in the table of dates. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                  | -->

## Shortcuts

You may use [date-fns](https://date-fns.org) to make date calculations.

```jsx
import addDays from 'date-fns/addDays'

const shortcuts = [
  { title: 'Set date', date: '1969-07-15' },
  {
    title: 'Relative +3 days',
    date: ({ date }) => date && addDays(date, 3)
  }
]

<DatePicker shortcuts={shortcuts} />
```

With range enabled.

```jsx
import startOfMonth from 'date-fns/startOfMonth'
import lastDayOfMonth from 'date-fns/lastDayOfMonth'

const shortcuts = [
  {
    title: 'Set date period',
    start_date: '1969-07-15',
    end_date: '1969-07-15',
    close_on_select: true,// will close the picker
  },
  {
    title: 'This month',
    start_date: startOfMonth(new Date()),
    end_date: lastDayOfMonth(new Date())
  }
]

<DatePicker shortcuts={shortcuts} />
```

Commit message:

fix: add stretch support to #date-picker and enhance support for #dropdown

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/date-picker/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Properties

| Properties                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `date`                                      | _(optional)_ defines the pre filled date by either a JavaScript DateInstance or (ISO 8601) like `date="2019-05-05"`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `start_date`                                | _(optional)_ to set the pre filled starting date. Is used if `range={true}` is set to true. Defaults to null, showing the `mask_placeholder`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `end_date`                                  | _(optional)_ to set the pre filled ending date. Is used if `range={true}` is set to true. Defaults to null, showing the `mask_placeholder`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `month`                                     | _(optional)_ to display what month should be shows in the first calendar by default. Defaults to the `date` respective `start_date`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `start_month`                               | _(optional)_ to display what month should be shows in the first calendar by default. Defaults to the `date` respective `start_date`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `end_month`                                 | _(optional)_ to display what month should be shows in the second calendar by default. Defaults to the `date` respective `start_date`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `min_date`                                  | _(optional)_ to limit a date range to a minimum `start_date`. Defaults to null.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `max_date`                                  | _(optional)_ to limit a date range to a maximum `end_date`. Defaults to null.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `date_format`                               | _(optional)_ Defines how the prop dates (`date`, `start_date` and `end_date`) should be parsed, e.g. `yyyy/MM/dd`. Defaults to `yyyy-MM-dd`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `return_format`                             | _(optional)_ Defines how the returned date, as a string, should be formatted as. Defaults to `yyyy-MM-dd`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `range`                                     | _(optional)_ if the date picker should support a range of two dates (starting and ending date). Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `show_input`                                | _(optional)_ if the input fields with the mask should be visible. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `mask_order`                                | _(optional)_ to define the order of the masked placeholder input fields. Defaults to `dd/mm/yyyy`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `opened`                                    | _(optional)_ to open the date-picker by default. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `mask_placeholder`                          | _(optional)_ to display the placeholder on input. Defaults to `dd/mm/åååå`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `hide_navigation`                           | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, the navigation will be hidden. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `hide_days`                                 | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, the week days will be hidden. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `show_submit_button`                        | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, a submit button will be shown. You can change the default text by using `submit_button_text="Ok"`. Defaults to `false`. If the `range` prop is `true`, then the submit button is show by.                                                                                                                                                             |
| `show_cancel_button`                        | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, a cancel button will be shown. You can change the default text by using `cancel_button_text="Avbryt"` Defaults to `false`. If the `range` prop is `true`, then the cancel button is show by.                                                                                                                                                          |
| `show_reset_button`                         | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, a reset button will be shown. You can change the default text by using `reset_button_text="Tilbakestill"` Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `link`                                      | _(optional)_ link both calendars, once to user is navigating between months. Only meant to use if range is set to ture. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `sync`                                      | _(optional)_ sync input values with the calendars views. Once the input values getting changed, the calendar changes its views in sync. Defaults to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `first_day`                                 | _(optional)_ to define the first day of the week. Defaults to `monday`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `locale`                                    | _(optional)_ to define the locale used in the calendar. Needs to be an `date-fns` **v2** locale object, like `import enLocale from 'date-fns/locale/en-GB'`. Defaults to `nb-NO`.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `align_picker`                              | _(optional)_ use `right` to change the calendar alignment direction. Defaults to `left`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `only_month`                                | _(optional)_ use `true` to only show the defined month. Disables the month navigation possibility. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| `hide_last_week`                            | _(optional)_ use `true` to only show the last week in the current month, if it needs to be shows. The result is that there will mainly be shows five (5) weeks (rows) instead of six (6). Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `stretch`                                   | _(optional)_ if set to `true`, then the date-picker input field will be 100% in `width`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `label`                                     | _(optional)_ a prepending label in sync with the date input field.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| `label_direction`                           | _(optional)_ use `label_direction="vertical"` to change the label layout direction. Defaults to `horizontal`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `suffix`                                    | _(optional)_ text describing the content of the DatePicker more than the label. You can also send in a React component, so it gets wrapped inside the DatePicker component.                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| `label_sr_only`                             | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `shortcuts`                                 | _(optional)_ gives you the possibility to set predefined dates and date ranges so the user can select these by one click. Define either a JSON or an object with the defined shortcuts. More info below.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `addon_element`                             | _(optional)_ gives you the possibility to inject a React element showing up over the footer. Use it to customize `shortcuts`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `input_element`                             | _(optional)_ gives you the possibility to use a plain/vanilla `<input />` HTML element by defining it as a string `input_element="input"`, a React element, or a render function `input_element={(internalProps) => (<Return />)}`. Can also be used in circumstances where the `react-text-mask` not should be used, e.g. in testing environments. Defaults to custom masked input. |
| `status`                                    | _(optional)_ text with a status message. The style defaults to an error message. You can use `true` to only get the status color, without a message.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `status_state`                              | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `disable_autofocus`                         | _(optional)_ once the date picker gets opened, there is a focus handling to ensure good accessibility. This can be disabled with this property. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `global_status_id`                          | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| [Space](/uilib/components/space/properties) | _(optional)_ spacing properties like `top` or `bottom` are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

<!-- | `enable_keyboard_nav`                       | _(optional)_ Enables easy keyboard navigation inside the calendar dates. **NB!** this feature suppresses Screen Reader navigation on NVDA since we then uses the arrow keys to navigate in the table of dates. Defaults to `false`.                                                                                                                                                  | -->

## Shortcuts

You may use [date-fns](https://date-fns.org) to make date calculations.

```jsx
import addDays from 'date-fns/addDays'

const shortcuts = [
  { title: 'Set date', date: '1969-07-15' },
  {
    title: 'Relative +3 days',
    date: ({ date }) => date && addDays(date, 3)
  }
]

<DatePicker shortcuts={shortcuts} />
```

With range enabled.

```jsx
import startOfMonth from 'date-fns/startOfMonth'
import lastDayOfMonth from 'date-fns/lastDayOfMonth'

const shortcuts = [
  {
    title: 'Set date period',
    start_date: '1969-07-15',
    end_date: '1969-07-15',
    close_on_select: true,// will close the picker
  },
  {
    title: 'This month',
    start_date: startOfMonth(new Date()),
    end_date: lastDayOfMonth(new Date())
  }
]

<DatePicker shortcuts={shortcuts} />
```
