packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/radio/properties.md, before:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Radio button properties

| Properties         | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value`            | _(mandatory)_ defines the `value` as a string. Use it to get the value during the `on_change` event listener callback in the **RadioGroup**. |
| `checked`          | _(optional)_ determine whether the radio is checked or not. Default will be `false`.                                                         |
| `title`            | _(optional)_ the `title` of the input - describing it a bit further for accessibility reasons.                                               |
| `group`            | _(optional)_ use a unique group identifier to define the Radio buttons who belongs together.                                                 |
| `size`             | _(optional)_ the size of the Radio button. For now there is **medium** (default) and **large**.                                              |
| `label`            | _(optional)_ use either the `label` property or provide custom one.                                                                          |
| `label_position`   | _(optional)_ defines the position of the `label`. Use either `left` or `right`. Defaults to `right`.                                         |
| `status`           | _(optional)_ text with a status message. The style defaults to an error message.                                                             |
| `status_state`     | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                         |
| `global_status_id` | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                            |

## Radio group properties

| Properties         | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value`            | _(optional)_ defines the pre-selected Radio button. The value has to match one provided in the Radio button. Use a string value.                                     |
| `name`             | _(optional)_ custom grouping name. Defaults to random name.                                                                                                          |
| `layout_direction` | _(optional)_ Define the layout direction of the Radio buttons. Can be either `column` or `row`. Defaults to `column`.                                                |
| `title`            | _(optional)_ the `title` of group, describing it a bit further for accessibility reasons.                                                                            |
| `size`             | _(optional)_ the size of the Radio button. For now there is **medium** (default) and **large**.                                                                      |
| `status`           | _(optional)_ uses the `form-status` component to show failure messages.                                                                                              |
| `status_state`     | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                                 |
| `global_status_id` | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                                    |
| `label`            | _(optional)_ use either the `label` property or provide custom one.                                                                                                  |
| `label_direction`  | _(optional)_ to define the `label` layout direction on how the next element should be placed on. Can be either `vertical` or `horizontal`. Defaults to `horizontal`. |
| `label_sr_only`    | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                           |
| `vertical`         | _(optional)_ will force both `direction` and `label_diretion` to be **vertical** if set to `true`.                                                                   |

### Radio group Context

You can also pass through `label_position` and some more **Radio button** properties to the Group. This way all nested Radio buttons will get the properties.

Commit message:

docs: add docs about status states if `true` was given

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/radio/properties.md, after:

---
showTabs: true
---

## Radio button properties

| Properties         | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value`            | _(mandatory)_ defines the `value` as a string. Use it to get the value during the `on_change` event listener callback in the **RadioGroup**.         |
| `checked`          | _(optional)_ determine whether the radio is checked or not. Default will be `false`.                                                                 |
| `title`            | _(optional)_ the `title` of the input - describing it a bit further for accessibility reasons.                                                       |
| `group`            | _(optional)_ use a unique group identifier to define the Radio buttons who belongs together.                                                         |
| `size`             | _(optional)_ the size of the Radio button. For now there is **medium** (default) and **large**.                                                      |
| `label`            | _(optional)_ use either the `label` property or provide custom one.                                                                                  |
| `label_position`   | _(optional)_ defines the position of the `label`. Use either `left` or `right`. Defaults to `right`.                                                 |
| `status`           | _(optional)_ text with a status message. The style defaults to an error message. You can use `true` to only get the status color, without a message. |
| `status_state`     | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                 |
| `global_status_id` | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                    |

## Radio group properties

| Properties         | Description                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `value`            | _(optional)_ defines the pre-selected Radio button. The value has to match one provided in the Radio button. Use a string value.                                     |
| `name`             | _(optional)_ custom grouping name. Defaults to random name.                                                                                                          |
| `layout_direction` | _(optional)_ Define the layout direction of the Radio buttons. Can be either `column` or `row`. Defaults to `column`.                                                |
| `title`            | _(optional)_ the `title` of group, describing it a bit further for accessibility reasons.                                                                            |
| `size`             | _(optional)_ the size of the Radio button. For now there is **medium** (default) and **large**.                                                                      |
| `status`           | _(optional)_ uses the `form-status` component to show failure messages.                                                                                              |
| `status_state`     | _(optional)_ defines the state of the status. Currently there are two statuses `[error, info]`. Defaults to `error`.                                                 |
| `global_status_id` | _(optional)_ the `status_id` used for the target [GlobalStatus](/uilib/components/global-status).                                                                    |
| `label`            | _(optional)_ use either the `label` property or provide custom one.                                                                                                  |
| `label_direction`  | _(optional)_ to define the `label` layout direction on how the next element should be placed on. Can be either `vertical` or `horizontal`. Defaults to `horizontal`. |
| `label_sr_only`    | _(optional)_ use `true` to make the label only readable by screen readers.                                                                                           |
| `vertical`         | _(optional)_ will force both `direction` and `label_diretion` to be **vertical** if set to `true`.                                                                   |

### Radio group Context

You can also pass through `label_position` and some more **Radio button** properties to the Group. This way all nested Radio buttons will get the properties.
