packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/design-system/about.md, before:

---
title: 'About'
icon: 'info'
order: 3
---

import WelcomeAdvice from 'Docs/welcome-advice'
import { Blockquote } from '@dnb/eufemia/src'

# About Eufemia

## The Vision

<Blockquote className="dnb-blockquote">
Eufemia empowers us to efficiently innovate and create holistic world class experiences
</Blockquote>

Eufemia is [DNB's](https://www.dnb.no/) design system, which consists of resources for designers and developers to maintain consistency and efficiency when building accessible web applications. The goal is to have a single source of truth for design through color, typography, and layout guidelines as well as fully coded components to use in applications.

### For everyone

With Eufemia, DNB can continually increase the product quality for both visual users and users relying on assistive technologies. It follows the industry and regulatory standards [UU Tilsynet](https://www.uutilsynet.no/) alongside with [WCAG 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/).

You can read more about what we at DNB UX expect and define as the minimal [accessibility requirements](/uilib/usage/accessibility) for our web applications.

<WelcomeAdvice />

## Special Thanks

Thank you to all who have contributed to build Eufemia. People who have contributed heavily to Eufemia are:

- Jens Thuland
- Casper Brekke
- Tobias Høegh
- Sindre Marken
- Dina Rosvoll
- Anders Langseth
- Thayanan Tharmapalan
- Kevin Murphy
- Hans Kristian Smedsrød

The DNB ASA Design System (Eufemia) is built together with [EGGS Design](https://eggsdesign.com/).

## More People to thank

- Nicolai Rygh

## Credits

The Eufemia Portal includes [third party services](/design-system/credits).

Commit message:

docs: update the contact and about pages + add section about transparency

packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/design-system/about.md, after:

---
title: 'About'
icon: 'info'
order: 3
---

import WelcomeAdvice from 'Docs/welcome-advice'
import { Blockquote } from '@dnb/eufemia/src'

# About Eufemia

## The Vision

> Eufemia empowers us to efficiently innovate and create holistic world class experiences

Eufemia is [DNB's](https://www.dnb.no/) design system, which consists of resources for designers and developers to maintain consistency and efficiency when building accessible web applications. The goal is to have a single source of truth for design through color, typography, and layout guidelines as well as fully coded components to use in applications.

### For everyone

With Eufemia, DNB can continually increase the product quality for both visual users and users relying on assistive technologies. It follows the industry and regulatory standards [UU Tilsynet](https://www.uutilsynet.no/) alongside with [WCAG 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/).

You can read more about what we at DNB UX expect and define as the minimal [accessibility requirements](/uilib/usage/accessibility) for our web applications.

<WelcomeAdvice />

## Special Thanks

Thank you to all who have contributed to build Eufemia. People who have contributed heavily to Eufemia are:

- Jens Thuland
- Casper Brekke
- Mats Ødegaard Vassli
- Sindre Marken
- Kevin Murphy
- Tobias Høegh
- Anders Langseth
- Dina Rosvoll
- Thayanan Tharmapalan
- Hans Kristian Smedsrød

## Transparency

We at UX have created the Eufemia design system to streamline both design and development processes at DNB.

Access to the code and documentation is absolutely essential to being able to build good relationships and balance between willingness to contribute, further development and communication.

To ensure this transparency, the code on [GitHub](http://github.com/dnbexperience/eufemia) and the [Eufemia Portal](https://eufemia.dnb.no/) are made available without restrictions.

In summary – we experience that it;

- makes it possible for others and anyone who wants to - to contribute.
- strengthens the identity of design and development processes in DNB.
- defines the sense of ownership of the user's design system.
- increases the professionalization of development processes.
- contributes to the greatest possible transparency towards our partners and DNB's customers.
- simplifies the everyday working life of those who use the design system.
- makes the design system available to all those who do not have the internal DNB access.

It is about DNB's reputation for being clear, transparent and proud of who we want to be. The fact that our design system is shared openly not only makes it available to everyone we work with, but will also be a signal that we continuously work to create the very best solutions, and that this open design system is a testament to our commitment to this mandate.

---

## Credits

The Eufemia Portal includes [third party services](/design-system/credits).

## Additional links

- [Privacy](/design-system/privacy)
- [License](/license)
